 

' @i

I. P. CALLISON & SONS

DIVISION CALLISONS, INC.

SPECIFICégLRON SHEET
MENTHOL NORTH AMERICAN

Menthol North American

DESCRIPTION:
APPEARANCE: Colorless crystals or crystalline powder.
ODOR AND TASTE: Equal to an approved Standard.
RANGES OF PHYSICAL Optical Rotation @ 25°C -45° - -51°
PROPERTIES: Melting Range 41°C - 44°C
PACKAGING: Fiber drums.
STORAGE: To insure quality. store in full. tightly sealed
containers. Protect from heat, air and light.
DATE: - January 13, 1999
CUSTOMER: ILLEEIHQLQSJLQEAEL
IPC APPROVAL: W Manager. Laboratory Services
IPC REVIEW: Quality Assurance Chemist

ZSSS 98829

PO. Box 120 0 799 N. National Ave. ' Chehails, WA 98582 USA
I (360) 748-3315 ' Telex1287924 CALL UP ‘ Fax: 1 (360) 748.0421

 

state Activities Division

February 17, 1989
The Tobacco Institute

5-89-7

1989
state Tobacco Legislation

Introducengrefileleroposed£Carrxover

CIGARETTE EXCISE TAXES

 

Cigarette tax increases have been proposed in 31 states for
consideration in the 1989 legislative session. One state has
passed a tax increase:

WYOHING

4—cent increase (8 to 12 cents) eff.
7/1/89; applies to floor stocks

Proposals are pending in 28 states (current rate in parentheses):

Alaska (16)
Arizona (15)
Arkansas (21)
Connecticut (26)
Georgia (12)
Hawaii (40%)

Idaho (18)
Illinois (20)
Indiana (15.5)
Iowa (34/31)
Louisiana (16)
Maryland (13)
Massachusetts (26)
Mississippi (18)
Missouri (13)

Montana (16)
Nevada (20/15)

New Hampshire (17)
New Jersey (27)

New Mexico (15)
New York (21)
Ohio (18)

Oregon (27)

South Dakota (23)
Tennessee (13)
Texas (26)
‘Vermont (17)
Washington (31)

9-cent
lo-cent
3.5—cent; 10—cent defeated
9-cent; 24—cent
S-cent; 12-cent
from 40 to 50% of wholesale; change
ad valorem to per pack
7-cent
18-cent
0.5-cent
2—cent;
6-cent
13—cent
4—cent; other bills amounts unspecified
l—cent; lO—cent; 25—cent
6-cent: 7-cent; B—cent (all require voter
approval at April election)
l—cent; 5-cent
allow 5-cent sunset/1.5—cent increase;

no sunset/unspecified increase
6-cent
1-cent; 5—cent; eliminate ad valorem
surtax/raise excise
3-cent; 20—cent
7-cent|
lO-cent
3-cent;
lO-cent
1—cent; 27—cent
0.5-cent
20-cent
5—cent

repeal 3—cent sunset

8—cent

Proposed excise increase have been defeated in two states:

Oklahoma (23)
Virginia (2.5)

6—cent
6-cent

Cigarette tax bills are anticipated in another 12 to 17 states.

New Jersey, Rhode Island and Wyoming proposals would impose
retail sales tax on cigarettes.

TI1151-2619

DRAFT STATEMENT, GARFINKEL/HIRAYAMA, WK 4/20/81

A widely headlined report from Japan that smokers expose
their wives to lung cancer has been refuted in a new American
study.

In a population four times that of the Japanese study and
over a longer period, the American Cancer Society's chief
statistician has disclosed that "nonsmokers married to smoking
husbands showed no increased risk of cancer compared to non-
smoking women married to nonsmoking husbands."

The U.S. report, by Lawrence Garfinkel, appearing in the
May issue of the Journal of the National Cancer Institute, is
based on a follow—up of more than a million Americans enrolled
two decades ago by Cancer Society volunteers.

The Japanese study, authored by Takeshi Hirayama, a Japanese
government statistician, appeared last January in the British
Medical Journal. It produced a rash of news stories, editorials
and demands for smoking prohibitions, from writers and others who
presumed its accuracy.

Hirayama's reported findings among some 265,000 residents
in parts of his country showed a reported lung cancer death rate
of 10.4 per hundred thousand among women whose husbands do not
smoke and 14.6 for women whose husbands are smokers.

By implication, Hirayama's data projected an even higher
rate -- 18 —— for single women. But he failed to report on either
smoking or lung cancer rates among the substantial number of
single women in his study population. However, if these do not

differ from married women's rates, the Japanese experience can be

111031-0980

—-—-—-—-———————_—__—_—____—__

INFORMATION SHEET

1st Shi Date to Retail:

R.J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO. AND MCLANE \ SO. CAL. PROMOTION

   
  

06/02/97
66824 j

    
 

     

lS-Digit Description: DORAL- JUNE B2G1F
Promotion #: 700272

+ Product Reguirements:
Product Delive Date : 5/12/97

UIN # “Pre—Sleeved” UPC # Case # of Ctns per # of Cases
Promotional Product Size Dis 0 la
766568 DORAL FF Bx- minim—n

-—_m-‘_
_—-m--I-

_———m-._

+ Premium/Sleeve/Value-Added Shi erS eciﬁc
Delivery Date: 5/12/97

   
     
    
    

  

   

 

   

    
    

RJRItem# UPC#

P ' ;
Doral BZGlF Display 525101 012300— 21 1 230
Kit 23850

K

   

07
Special Packing Instructions: ' 23W /
Packing Rate: $14.00 per “live” 12M case w l 7
Bill Back: .

O SQecial Information:

1886 90819

mclanefm

The Tobacco Institute . June 16, 1995

1995 STATE UPDATE & OUTLOOK
TOBACCO LEGISLATION, REGULATION & BALLOT MEASURES

OVERVIEW

To date, 49 state legislatures have convened their 1995 sessions. Kentucky, the only state not
scheduled to have a regular session this year, has already held a special session on taxes. Lawmakers
in 33 states have adjourned their regular sessions, and an additional six states are expected to adjourn
by the end of June. Illinois and Michigan lawmakers have completed their regular session business

and have recessed for the summer; New York, Ohio and Pennsylvania are expected to do the same
by the end of this month

TAXES

 

Despite opposition efforts, legislators in South Dakota passed the ﬁrst tobacco tax increase in 1995.
The bill, sigred by Governor Jarrldow on March 16, adds 10 cents to the current 23-cent cigarette
excise tax, imposes a new 10% tax on other tobacco products, and establishes the state legislature as
exclusive regulator of matters relating to the use of tobacco products. A second tax increase was
signed into law on April 12 by Vermont Governor Dean. Included in the funding for indigent health
care were a 24-cent cigarette tax hike and 21% increase in the OTP tax rate.

An Oregon tax bill awaits Governor Kitzhaber’s approval. The bill would extend the sunset date for
10 cents of the current 38-cent cigarette excise tax until January 1, 1998; the tax was scheduled to be
reduced this year. Other attempts to raise the cigarette tax in Oregon failed this year. In Wisconsin,
a group of legislators requested a SO-cent hike in the cigarette excise tax; however, the Joint Finance
Committee reported its budget without any tobacco taxes. Wisconsin legislators may still introduce a

separate bill to recover the state’s “smoldng-related” expenditures or attempt to amend the budget.
Eight other states are considering cigarette tax increases.

Thus far this year, cigarette tax increases have been defeated in 14 states, including a 25.1-cent hike
in Florida, 40-cent hike in Hawaii and 18-cent increase in Montana. Lawmakers in Minnesota
rejected seven bills to increase tobacco taxes and seven more attempts to amend the House omnibus
tax bill. Also, attempts in Washington to repeal the 26-cent cigarette tax increase, scheduled to be
implemented over the next two years, were unsuccessful.

9299 96€IS

Dr. Redford B. Williams; Jr. (Dike lhiversity Medical Center) opened the
conference with a discussion of hostility and hormones as biobehavioral
mechanisms in CAD. He said that looking at type A behavior is like looking at
total cholesterol. 'Ihere are a lot of cxmponents, some of which are toxic,
sane may be protective. and some may not be related to the development of (mD.
The so—called global type A behavior should be broken down into its microca'n—
ponents and their contributions, individually and in combination with other
corponents. need to be assessed. 'Ihe microccnponent concept may explain why
some small angiographic studies have failed to show an effect of type A be—

‘ havior in CAD. 'lhe pcwer of the "toxic" corponents was not strong enough to
overture the “protective" conponents in the small studies.

After adjusting for all the standard risk factors, type A behavior is
related to coronary heart disease (om) mly in people 55 years of age or
yamer. 'lhis is true for fenales as well as males but men are at a higher
CHD risk. Dr. Williams said this age effect was there no ﬂatter hcw one looks
at the data. He also said that global type A at sufficient power is related
to (11D; and asked if biologically—vulnerable typos A's died earlier and did
not live laigenough fortheeffect oftypeAbehaviortobeseen afterage
55.

IookingattheconponentsottypeAbaavioristhenextstepaxﬂall
agreed that type A's have a potential for hostility. (It was also noted that
type 8‘5 with cm exhibit sane characteristics of type A behavior. but not
enough to be called type A's.) Another diaracteristic is the repression of
anger. 'Ihose who express their anger do not have an increased axrotmt of can.
It was also noted that all risk factors get weaker as age increases. 'lhe sug—
gestion was made that if population sanples aged 45 years or over are an—
ployed. these people may be too old for the effect of nany risk factors to be
seen.

Another factor to be considered is that a lot of type A behavior may be
detemdred by the sympathetic rervous system. Increased levels of cortisone,
mrepineﬁirine, and testosterone have been observed in type A's. Using these
homones, Dr. William is going to see if he can produce atherosclerosis in
the Egyptian sand rat by dironically creating the type A homonal milieu.l

It. 'n'neodore H. Dahoski (Lhiversity of Maryland) discussed hostility
and (3D. He said that global type A behavior is primarily duracterized by
loud, explosive; rapid speech, i'E‘; a vigorous voice style, and hostile peo—
ple are more likely to speak mi; way. Some 80-85% of type A's exhibit explo-
sive speech. Dr. Dmbroski noted that Ibsennm in his Western Collaborative
Group Study fomd a ratio of type A's to type B's of approximately 50/50.
However later studies; including HRFI‘I‘. have had ratios closer to 75/25. I-b
questiaredvheﬂmerﬂereladbemaslﬁftovertimofinvestigamrsloddng
primarily at vigorous speech characteristics.

——'——_—_.______—___,___—
1 The rat is not a good nodel for atherosclerosis. WI, Dr. Williams said

that this particular rat, a desert aninal, develops atherosclerosis readily
when fed a normal diet. Dr. James Blmenthal, also frcm Dike; told me Dr.
. Williams was also going to use miniature swine. which is a good nodal.

LESS EZhOS

{N

INDLEEE QE BlQLQQlﬂﬂL 69112111 Hﬂlﬂﬂ HILL EE UEﬂEUBEQi

ﬂ) Circulating Lymphocytes
1) Chromosomal aberrations
2) Sister chromatid exchanges

B) Urine
I) Mutagenicity in the Ames bacterial mutation assay

BﬁIIQNﬁLE: The assessment of adverse biological activity is an important
aspect of product development. While important preliminary information can be,
and due to ethical considerations must.be, obtained from in yitrg systems and
animal models the ultimate species of interest is the human being. Thus,
measuring biological activity in human beings following exposure to the agent
of interest is an integral part of safety assessment. Traditionally, urine and
blood cells(lymphocytes) from exposed human beings have been used to assess
exposure to biologically-active materials. These techniques are the two most
widely used methods for assessing biological activity in human beings and have

been used by scientists around the world to measure the biological activity of
cigarette smoke.

EXEEBlﬂEﬂIﬁL MEIHQDS
SUBJECTS: Number of groups - 3| one non-smoking control group and two test
groups
Subjects per group - approximately 25 .v””“”’““w""““‘\\’7

'? Sex - each group should be one-half male, one-haljwfemalg,/”
Age - 2! to 65‘ each group must be matched for age w
Health - all potential subjects should be in good physical condition
with no recent history of bacterial illness

subjects which contract a bacterial illness during the study I

should be dismissed
mwﬁ3’ X’W/ Drug use - all subjects must refrain from drug use during the study.
0?
Ar} 2 £EEE——--2>- ' The only exception will be moderate amounts of

$4fbbuﬁ’ '7 acetaminophen or ethyl alcohol.
, Diet - All subjects must be on an identical diet throughout the

Ptudy' (leuktgtfgaﬂ <HZL4 caye£ttbéyx OULLLZ

DURHTION OF STUDY: This is a topic for further discussion. The study should be

at least four(4) weeks long. A ion a would likel fica
benefit.

W

 

l‘

 

As mentioned above the two indiges of biological activityginuthiswstudyawill\be
‘mutagenic activity in urine and chromosome abnormalitiesainﬂlympheeytesr The

mutagens reported to be present in the urine of human cigarette smokers

 

HUMAN STUDY - DRAFT OUTLINE '
OCTOBER 6, 1988 E ) ‘ 'v4g2;22§35§
DAVID J. DOOLITTLE ’

QBJEQILME; To evaluate the biological activity of selected cigarettes in human
beings.

5209 $8905

YER880192VV P3991

 

BIOBEHAVIORAL RESEARCH DIVISION

1988 YEARLY STATUS REPORT

Program 1. Support New Product Technologies, Brand R&D, and the HTS Program

[ Personnel: Fernandes, Griffith, Ingram, Jennings, McKaig, Pritchard,
Reynolds, Robinson, Walker ]

1. Identify, through established lines of communication, emerging

opportunities to apply Biobehavioral Division technology/expertise to
assist Brand R&D.

A. Support Project HSB

i. Provide computer and data acquisition hardware for geographically
dispersed tests of human smoking behavior. (4/88)

Dr. Griffith finalized the Portable Puff-Profiler and Calibrator designs in
the first quarter of 1988. Ferguson Manufacturing was selected to
manufacture 50 profilers. Four calibrators were manufactured in-house by
PT&D personnel. Mr. Alan Norman (Applied R&D) completed software
development for a host computer to manage the subject information, and
worked with contract writers to prepare an operations and training manual
for study procedures. Components and materials for the manufacture of the
profilers were procured and provided by the Biobehavioral Division. Dr.
Griffith worked with a contract programmer to finalize software for the

profilers and, with Mr. Jennings, performed the final assembly, calibration
and pre—shipment testing of the profilers.

ii. Assist in set—up and trouble-shooting in geographical locations.
(6/88)

Dr. Griffith and Messersl Jennings and Mickey Smith (Brand R&D) traveled to
four field sites (Savannah, GA, Tucson, AZ, Buffalo, NY, and St.

Clairesville, OH) to install the computers and profilers. They returned to
the sites, with Dr. Reynolds, to perform final calibration of the flow
probes, install the final software for the profilers, and to observe and
assist in the start of the project in each city. Additional trips were
required during the course of the study to correct instrument malfunctions.

iii. Provide other assistance as needed and approved. (Ongoing)

A training session for 15 field operators was held at the Bellomy Research
facility in Winston—Salem. Dr. Reynolds conducted the course and produced
a training video for each site to use in training other site workers. An
additional 15 persons were trained at the field sites using the video tape
and a self—paced training manual was developed for the course.

0199 69919

The study was conducted for six weeks. A total of 1,240 subjects each
smoked 10 products and completed product satisfaction, life-style and
psychometric questionnaires. After being returned to Bellomy Research, the
questionnaires were forwarded to Market Dynamics, Inc. for data entry and
analysis. Dr. Griffith received the puffing data, produced summary puffing
information for each of the 12,404 smokings (representing 168,547 puffs)

 

WEEKLY HIGHLIGHTS JANUARY 15 - 19, 1990

AMES TESTING - Cindy Pulp and Sarah Bess
The following samples were tested in Ames this week:

2 C50 samples for Julio Munoz (ETP 114) were tested with T398 and TAIOO
up to 250 ug/plate. Sample descriptions are as follows: (a) Part A:
CLS Control Flue cured lower stalk; and (b) Part B: CLs-wnx Flue cured
lower stalk water and hexane sequential extraction. Data analysis is
in progress.

4 C80 samples for Anita Philips (Product Design 205) were tested with
T398 and TA100 up to 250 ug/plate. Sample descriptions are as follows:
(a) urn-1 "ac/70" Prototype-30% 015-5 + 70% we tobacco; (b) LTA-2
"50/50" Prototype-50% 615-5 + 50% "KS tobacco; (c) LTA-3 "100%"

Prototype-100% 07-12; and (d) LTA-4 "WKS"-winston King Size Tobacco.
Data analysis is in progress.

3 CSC samples for Cynthia Curtis (Tobacco Expansion 306) were tested
with TA98 and TAIOO up to 250 ug/plate. Sample descriptions are as
follows: (a) PD3497AA - Cigarettes with unexpanded tobacco; (b)
PD33623A - Cigarettes with F—ll expanded tobacco; and (c) PD3362AC -
Cigarettes with C02 expanded tobacco. Data analysis is in progress.

1 CSC sample for Ron Wagoner (NPT 218) was tested with TA98 and TA100

up to 1400 ug/plate. Sample code was KC—375. A dose response was

noted but revertant level did not double the background. A report is
being written.

3 CSC samples for Bill Clapp (ET? 114) were tested with TA98 and TA100
up to 250 ug/plate. Sample descriptions are as follows: (a) LN95
Control; (b) RP LN95 WE (total extract added back); and (c) RP LN98 WME
(membrane extract added back). Data analysis is in progress.

4 Sidestream particulate samples were tested for Jessie Rivers (AD 229)

with TA98 and TA100. The NO" 85 sidestream samples were tested at

0, 25, 50, 100, 125, 250, and 500 ug/plate. The Beta-90 prototype
PD-lB sidestream samples were tested at 0, 25, 50, 100, 250, 500, and
and 750 ug/plate. Data analysis is in progress.

FUTURE AMES TESTING

2 mainstream CSC samples for Jessie Rivers (AD 229)
7 C80 samples for Tom Perfetti (XGT 113)

2 flavor samples for Tom Perfetti (XGT 113)

CSC samples for Roger Bayworth (Product Design 205)

 

LL08 28609

January 10, 1995

SUMMARY

MEASURES OF PUBLIC OPPOSITION
TO FDA REGUIATION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS

Public Opinion Poll ‘

The majority of Americans favor the current level of regulation of cigarettes or even
reducing it - only a minority believe regulations should be expanded to include the
FDA.

Opinions do not differ by gender, age, education or income level and no subgroup
favors expanded regulation.

Petitions

More than one million adult Americans have signed petitions opposing FDA
regulation of tobacco products.

Signatures from every state «and every Congrerssional district» illustrate widespread
opposition to the FDA regulation.

letters

Thousands of Americans from all walks of life have written to FDA in recent months

opposing FDA regulation tobacco products.

A sampling of these letters show broad. nationwide opposition to the FDA proposal
and a strongly held view that FDA action is unnecessary.

U1
H
H
D
S
03
U1
01
U1

y ”mums.th .

 

(17f

BEST

ooPY

 
   

tscssed by analysis of blood samples from 47 workers occupal' nally
scd in styrene and 47 unrxposcd controls using the glyro. tin A
A) in viva genotoxicity may. “in assay lllilires mouocl nal

antl odles and flow cylomctry to analyze erythrocytes front r *lerozygous
GPA M’N) individuals to enumerate the frequency of varia m1 cells
tth h ve lost expression ofa single GPA allele Two elas es otallelc-
lots va 'anls arc detracted; hcmllygous cells that express l'c remaining
GPA al lc at a normal singlccopy lcvcl (Nl?) cells). a . homozygous
cells that xpress the remainirg allele ill a lwf‘rcopy Iev I (N/N cells).
All) effcc of styrene exposure appears to be small an- ls obscurrd by
confoundi effects of thc suhjccls‘ smoking habiu. n exposed
workers v. nl frequencies per million cells (st) en: NIB - l0.0 1
9.l (man i SD) and MN =73 1 5.7 versus NI -ll.31 9.6 and
MN = 6.9 1 -' 4 in the controls. Further. in the r set of 35 laminalors
exposed to the uighest air consentrations of it re e. no elevation in GPA
VI; was observ -: NIB = 9.7 i 7.3. N/N = . s 6.2. People who
smoked appear-- to show inc'eased st indc- oenl ofstyrenc
exposure. With c- trol and styrene—exposed . oups combined. NM st
were signiﬁcantly . evated in smokers. “.9 10.2 compared to non-
smokers. 8.2 i 5.5 It - 0.034) and MN Vl‘ were elevated but not
signiﬁcantly. Exclu- F smokers from lh styrene analysis revealed I
trend (not statistically gnil'lcsnt) to high N/ﬂ and N/N VI; in the
styrene-exposed work: -. In I? expos . workers NM and NIN st
were 9.31 6.6 and 7.1 -
respectively in l4 control _
somatic genoloxlc ellect o tyrant: e

   
        
 
  
  
  
    
    
         
     
    

sure.
6.08. DOE by the Lawrence
- r contract number Wv7405-FNG-48

25

ncnyuumc wuuczo
nos: cunourc normu
R.E.chapin ‘ int-ii
J.u.ueinde1 . ‘ntcn

hcrylamide, a

mam Emu-n! IN ulce FOLWINO Lott
cgrnxmc tin-reg. .7.a.at-nap‘.

, Loriulo. unseat-”3.
an. Triangle Inlt., RTF. NC
inyl rnonoma , nu been shown to induce
dominant lethal: nd heritable ran-location in the germ
calla of malt ice after i.-. injoctiona or dermal
applicationl, a d dominant 10th il in the guru coul of
male rate (our: in oral adminiat ation in drinking water.
The prelent te c all derriqnod to c-aeacteriu induction of
dominant lath
to chronic,

 

I at acrylami-a in drinking ua
Thin tort onduclzod in con: tion with an NT?
Reproductiv n- emant by Continuoua coding (RAG!) Ieudy
in which tn 3 and female CD1. mice we : doud continuoully
for no u- c with o, 10. 20 or 30 ppm cryiarnida in their
drinking eer. Expo-urea were eatinat- to be 0. 0.7, 2.1
or 6 mg/ q/day, relpoctJvuy. After I weak: on Itudy.
each of 0 CD) malal per traatrnant group wal caged with 3
untreat d, nuiiiparoul €01 female- on Iach f d conlecutivn
nighta. Femalaa were killed to daya (011- no obaervation
or a In ting plug (or (ran tho IIcond mating -pportunity it
no pl 9 van observed) a1d their uterine conentl analyud
ha toe-1 number! or implantation: a -
fetu an. and toe percentage: of implant: p--
ption molar and aa dead embryoa. The p. centaqn
rea rptionn in the 30 ppm treatment group (12.
It nificantly qr tar than in the control group -
1' ae reIulte a ILmilnr to than can followin-
a ministration of acrylamido to I (Smith at at.. utJIea
3:273. 1986) and dononatra induction of chr manor.»
amage in the gem ceiirl or rule mice at close. tows
hone pravicully uIad in utuctn involving any .
multiple acute adminintration. (supported by HP]
Contract I NOI-ES-SSI‘I)

          
   
  
    
  
  
  
   
 

 

   

     

     
  
  

 

 

  
  

   

"HIS

   

26

ASSESSMENT OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTM‘I’Y OF MAINSTREAM OR
ENVIRONMENTAL TOBACCO SMOKE (PIS) USING A CEuUIAR SMOKE
EXPOSURE TECHNIQUE. D. W. Bomblck'. P. H. Ayres'. P. R. Nelson‘. C.
R. E. Doggins', D. Franco'. 0. Fulp‘, C. Lee and Dr J. Doolittle. R J.
Reynolds Tobacco Company. Wirlstonsalem. Nc 27102.

The development or appropriate methods for exposing cell cultures to
whole smoke are necessary for evaluating the biological notiv'ty or
environmental tobacco smoke (HTS) in mammalian and bacterial cells. The
cellular smoke exposure technlque (CSE‘I) uses a rocking apparatus that
allows cells to oscillate betweon exposure to a known smoke concentration
and culture medium maintained at arc. the neutral red assay in We rat

 
 

1991 EMS ABSTRACTS ll

lrvur calls and on Autos assay were used to assess cytoloxrcrty and
mutagerllcny. respectively Malnsircﬂl“ srrluka generated trorn tFtIlF
relcrcncc Cigarettes was used to characterize the CSEY W8 cells were
(‘XDOSL'G tor one or two hours to varying mainstream slrioke concentrations
(an to 640 mg total panrculatc matternPMllmﬂ The TAQB Salmonella
bacteria were exposed tor two hours to a mainstream smoke concentration
oi 320 mg ”(PM/m’. the cytotoxlcuy or it?“ malnslrcam smoke to rat liver
cells was concentration and time dependent wnh no nbscrvud ollect levels
tor one and two hour oxposuros or approximately mo and 40 mg TPM/ln’,
respectively. Thu TA98 Salmonella strain exhibited approximately a two-fold
increase irl the number or revertants/plale alter exposure to lNF
mainstream smoke and an 59 metabolic actuation system. we rat liver
epithelial cells and the YASB Salmonella bacterial strain were exposed to a
relevant concentration or ETS (approximately 1.5 mg TPM/m’) for three
hours. Using the neutral red cytotoxicin and Ame: mutagenasis assays
there were no ditferenccs observed in the ETSexposed cells and their
respoctivc room air controls. indicating that ETS was biologically inactive as
tested. The use of CSET permits determination of concentration x limo
relationships and threshold concentrations lor the biological oftocts oi
mainstream. sidestrsam and environmental cigarette smoke without resorting
to Iniﬁclal smoke collection methods.

: = Uvermore National Laboratory. Livermore. CA.

When a sperm enters an 999': cytoplasm at fertilization the
-f its nucleus expands from I few cubic microns lnto s verai
thousan- cubic microns during the formation of the male pron cleus.
During th Iranslormallon, which Is carried out by blochenrlca factors
slorod In H? cap cytoplasm durlna ooganesls. sporrrr-specll'
are topic :- by somatic histories. nucloosorne structure ls res

    

. . In View of the large nuclear volume and the
r than dlplcld. chromosomal complement.
of DNA scene as In male pronuclcar chromatin might ~ : very different
from that In a r all, diploid, somatic nucleus. For lh - purposo. we
utilized an expert onlai system in whlch eggs [tom the olden hamster
were fused with I rvldual human or hamster sperm. 3 d were followcd
In their devolopme l through the first cell cycle. Th ~ system allowed
us to use DNA pr. - :~ tor hamster and human DNA squonces for which
genomic distances klfobnsa pelts (kbp) were nown. Genomic
distances could be on - - rod to physical tﬁstances asured between the
sites of the probes In pr nuclel. the sltes were de cted by ﬂuorescence
In situ hybridlzallon. found that mean phys’ | distances between
signals In pronuoiaar chr- ‘

In fibroblasts. We also to between oanomlc and
physical distances Irom 1 kbp up to at le t 810 kbp. These data
demonstrate that pronuclea chromatin Is tnre loosely packaged than
chromatin In somatic lntarhase nuclei. This unusual chromatin
expansion may be one fac r In expla Ina the preponderance of
chromosome breakage events var ohro osome rejoining events when
sperm damage sustained balor spar .

ﬁrst cleavage divislon. Work - rfo
National Laboratory under the au -‘ .
under contract W-7405-ENGr48.

28

DIETARY INFLUENCES ON SPERMR ' ENESIS. Mill.
Brinkuorth‘ and D ana Angsin. Genetic r.

  
 
    
     
      

   
    

    
   
   
  
  
   
  

ad by the Lawrence leermora
- olthc US Department at Energy.

Currently here are no widely a
animal model
nutritional status on reproductive trxicoiogy
end—points This paper describes tu- related
but contr: ting systems that were inv:seigated
principa y by using a sperm morpholog

hronlc protein deficiency is u eksl

. ined in-marmcsecs tggiijghrig jg gang)
r—acute methionine- and choline-
depri ation was investigated in F344 rats
The armosets lost “Eight and were presumaly

      
  
        
  
  

  
   
   
  
 

"[038 VGTIIS

 

"I-s'rs

‘3

f—‘W 'ibn Mod/wit

W

Grant Application ii 112114, Peter V. Tishler, H.D.,' Peter Bent Brigham Hospital,
Boston. Massachusetts.

"Aryl Hydrocarbon Hydrdi-tylase and Occupational Exposure to Asbestos"

This investigator intends to measure lyrnphobiast AHH inducibility in
subjects with known heavy exposure to asbestos for many years. Their findings
will be converted with an age-matched unexposed control population. The
exposed group will include 1105 smokers and 55 non-smokers, a number which they
believe will be sufficient to provide prospective assessments of the relationships
between AHH inducibility and the development of disease known to be related to
asbestos (lung cancer, ind rresotheliomata).

Spectrofluoromet ric methods will be usod for the determination of AHH in
cultured lynphobiasts. Studies will be reruated on a sub-sample of the total
population. Finally, Dr. Seiikoff, a physician with extensive experience with
the asbestos problem, will be a participant in the study through the provision of
follow-up, presumably over a long period of time. on the subjects so that any

correlation between asbestos associated lmg disease and AHh‘ inducibility
might be determined.

investigations will be conducted at the Channinq Laboratory of the Harvard

Medical Schoolwhich is located at the Boston City Hospital. The laboratory
facilities appear to be adequate. '

Sanples will be collected by Dr. Selikoff and his associates and there
is a letter indicating the collaboration agreement with Dr. Selikoff.

There is only one technical point that I would like to raise and this
pertains to the budget justification. Specifically, the specimens will be
obtained in New York City by Dr. Selikoff during the course of regular
examinations on the subject populatitn. The investigator raises a problem
about safe arrival of samles in Dosion and i assume by this that be is concerned
about the sh....;ing and viability of these lymhocytes. I do not foreSee
that this should be a serious problem since we have shipped samples succesSfuily
on numerous occasions. i would think that this minor problem could be

resolved with the saving of significant funds which minht otherwise be
expended through Boston to New York and return trips by personnel.

This project appears to be well thought out. and the loves tinator
definitely appears to have insiqht into pertinent aspects of the issue

Finally, it would be of value to learn about the important mohlem oﬁbesf‘os

AHH, cigarette smokinn, and asbestos related diseases.

 

 

‘muf-T"? ,_':. \

<n"—W . ..

MORE

 

Brand Positioning Statement

How Consumers View The Brand

 

The MORE Brand, which offers various color, length,

and slimness configurations, is viewed as different

from all other brands of cigarettes. Importantly,
smokers are more familiar with MORE 120's than with

MORE Lights 100's, so that perceptions of MORE 120's
drive the image of the total Brand. The distinctive
color and the long, slim shape (primarily MORE 120's)

are sufficiently distinctive to impart a specific
personality to the MORE smoker. Smokers of the brand

are viewed as possessing a strong measure of independence
and strength of character, characteristics of people who
would smoke so unique a product. They are seen as
primarily women, who are self—assured, mature, confident,
sophisticated, and stylish. While some smokers view the
MORE user as representing the extremes of these character—

istics, the MORE smoker is nonetheless seen as possessing
a multi—faceted personality.

By contrast, the users of MORE's primary competition,
Virginia Slims, are viewed as having a much more shallow
personality. Smokers of Virginia Slims are perceived as
exclusively women who are overtly feminine, clothes-
conscious, and somewhat immature. While Virginia Slims’
perceptions are consistent with its positioning as a
brand for women, consumers do not perceive Virginia
Slims as strongly projecting personality traits which
help to define the kind of women who smoke the brand.

From the standpoint of product perceptions, the majority
of smokers are familiar with the unique appearance of
MORE 120's (long, slim, dark brown); however, low levels
of awareness exist with regard to MORE Lights 100's more
moderate appearance (beige, 100mm, slender). In addition,
because of its length and slow burn rate, MORE 120's is
also perceived as having a measure of value not inherent
in shorter cigarettes.

How We Want Consumers To View The Brand

 

MORE should be perceived by smokers as a brand family of
distinctive cigarettes that is smoked by women who are
charismatic, sophisticated, and feminine, and who,possess
presence and personality that women admire and desire to
emulate. Her presence is defined by the expression of

her attitude about herself, her attitude toward others,
and her appearance via her clothing statement.

'f

GZDL LLEOQ

 

- SENT BYSMcCorriston Miho Millr: 9-25-95 i 16100 i

 

MMM‘ 19164412897iii '1

August 24. 1995

Bans all outdoor advertising within 1,000 feet of any playground, elementary
school or secondary school (including signs on retail stores) [897.30lbi]
Limits all other advertising to black text one white background lexcept for
advertising in certain "adult" periodicals) [897.32laii

‘ ‘Urnits logos and brand names on race cars, driver uniforms, erc., to a blackeon-
white format [897.30laHZ) & 897.32]

Requires all cigarette advertising to include the phrase "CIGARETTESnA
NICOTINE DELIVERY DEVICE" [897.32in

Requires all cigarette advertising to carry a second Warning statement, in
addition to the Surgeon General’e warning that is already required [897.32(c)l

Bans all cigarette advertising‘iiri any media not specifically enumerated in the
proposed rule [897.30laii ,

Bans the use of tobacco brand ne‘r‘tibe on non-tobacco products (9.9., t-shirte,
caps. lighters) [897.34iaii

Bans the use on tobacco products of brand names associated with non-tobacco

products (except for brand names used on tobacco products on January 1.
1995) (897.16laii

Bans brand-name event sponsorships: allows only corporate sponsorships (if
tobacco company name was extent on January 1. 1995) [897.34ch

Bans the distribution of free product samples. either in person or through the
mails [897.16idil

Requires tobacco product manufacturers to underta" 1 $150 million-a-year TV
based national public educational effort to discourage persons under 18 from
smoking [897.291

Gives FDA broad authority to pursue "false or misleading" cigarette advertising
and labeling, including "omissions," lack of "balance" and lack of "substantial
evidence" [897.36]

I991" ZSSTQ

Fortified Smoke Studies

A. Cigarette Fortification Equipment Capacity

l. One Machine:

l0 cigarettes/run x 7 runs/day x 7 day/wk = 490 cig.
Four Machines:

#90 cig/machine/7 day wk x h machines = l960 maxium
Anticipated usable cigarettes = l800/wk

'm

B. Toxicity studies Scheduled for January

In the Toxicity studies mice will be smoked with for-
tified smoke for a period of h weeks, l0 cig/day, l0 mg/cig.
At the end of the A week period we proposed to stop smoking
and hold the mice for tumor occurrence at the time of mor—
bidity. We propose to uSe the mice now adapted to smoke
which have had Sendai infections. After they have been
smoked with MCA or BaP or Benzene treated cigarettes, they
will be moved from 4807 Laboratory to 4809 Laboratory for
observation. This will allow #807 to be decontaminated and
new mice to be brought into the facility.

l. MCA, l0 mg/cig, four — 7 day weeks.
60 mice/(l2 mice/machine run) = 5 machine runs/day.
5 machine runs x 10 cig = 50 cig/day.
50 cig/day x 28 days = leOO cig. .
lhOO cig x lo mg MCA/cig = lh gm MCA.
1400 cig/(450 cig/one loading machine) = 3.l-wks.
l400 cig/(l800 cig/h machines) = 0.77 wks.

2. BaP - same as MCA
1400 cig, 14 gm BaP, 0.77 wks to load on 4 Machines.

3. Benzene treated cig.
l400 cig, 0.77 wks to load on Q machines or 3.] wks

on one machine.

C. MCA Series of Fortified Smoke Studies
Two Studies are proposed with MCA:

1. We will combine lOOlA and B to determine if short term
MCA exposure followed by long term Standard Smoke will
induce tumors. This would allow more fortified smoke
studies to be undertaken by first exposing to fortified
smoke on the Walton and then transfering to the SEleor
long term smoking which may act as a promoter. The fol-
lowing studies have not included a very important group
of controls. We have not included mice which will re—
ceive the MCA in smoke and then allowed to live without
smoking. The inclusion of these mice required the re—
thinking of the entire schedule, equipment capacity,
personnel, etc. in most studies. We could include one
such group with lOOlA and B, but not both the 3.25 and
7.0 week exposure period. l want to suggest that we
run one more group for 7 weeks on fortified smoke and
no futher smoking.

CT? CGHTE‘RCTS 0192514

 

 

 

P. R. J. Burch
Smoking and'Lung Cancer: the Problem of Inferring Cause
Jour. Royal Statistical Soc. A 141 (Pt. 4) 437—477 (1978)

Stating that the dogma that lung cancer is almost entirely due to
cigarette smoking rests largely and necessarily on epidemiological
studies, Professor Burch reviews the many methodological problems
arising in epidemiology,—such as the impossibility of randomizing
for smoking, constitutional differences between smokers and nonsmokers,
the heterogeneity of the human population, clinical diagnostic error
changes, and the frequency association is identified with cause. Also,
there is no comprehensive theory of carcinogenesis that as yet commands
general acceptance. He then describes the association between smoking
and lung cancer and their connection with sex and country. Secular
trends in recorded mortality from lung cancer in England and Wales,

1901 to 1970, are derived from the Registrar General's statistics.

Estimates are made of the expected trends assuming that the associations
found between the various types of smoking and lung cancer reflect causation.
Observed and expected trends conflict. The secular trends in mortality

from lung cancer in British male doctors are also examined. He argues

that no definitive conclusions can be reached about the extent of any

causal link between smoking and lung cancer. It is very doubtful that

the entire association observed between smoking and lung cancer in
occidental males should be interpreted in causal terms.

 

96h9 S9LOS

 

SAMPLING/FIELD MARKETING OPERATIONS

WEEKLY STATUS REPORT
February 8. 1985

CORPORATE

M lt'-B d Vol
0 u 1 ran ume OILS—g“

Intercept couponing for WINSTON/SALEM/CAMEL/VANTAGE will begin the first
wave of Flight I markets starting 2/25. A total of 2 $2.50 coupons
and mail-in offers for six $1.00 bouncebacks will b distributed by
3/31. A total of 12.808M coupons are planned in 1985. Purchase
requisitions are being routed for ap roval for each of the five
suppliers (MOI. FMI, BDS, GIII, ONLY? involved.

Coupons,_ugi£orms:’€id the new coupon sampling baskets for the first
markets are in production. A video orientation to be used by all '
suppliers in training'cbdpon distributors~was approved by Legal and
Public Relations with minor revisions. The video presentation will be
shown for approval to Public Affairs and Promotion management the.week
of 2/11. .

BRANDS

 

....-) . A

in... ».

l

1985 CAP sampling allocations for first quarter were completed in Salt

Lake City and Tucson. Distribution continues in Houston and San ,,
Antonio. Denver and Phoenix began 2/5 and Corpus Christi begins on 3/8.
To date 49.474 samples have been distributed by M0! who is executing the
first quarter program. Execution for the remainder of the year has been

quoted by M01, 305. and 6111. A total of 800M samples will be distrib—

uted in the 7 CAP markets in 1985.

1985 CAMEL GT began in Daytona Beach 2/2. Ken Burton evaluated FMI's
execution of the GT tent, featuring the Driver Change and Tire Change
competitions and car photo exhibit. Sampling will be added to the tent
activities beginning with the Sebring race on 3/23. Approximately 130"
samples will be delivered in 1985. The GT tent will be taken to 18
events during 1985..

CAMEL Soccer sampling program has been awarded to MR6. The program
consists of 100M samples being delivered at 13 games in the LA Coliseum
beginning 3/5. In addition to sampling. POS materials will be placed
and two concession booths erected at the coliseum offering a free cap
with 2 pack purchase and free t-shirt with a 4 pack purchase.

6hl6 66EOS

Environmental Tobacco Smoke in Aircraft Cabins:
A Scientific Perspective

The U.S. Department of Transportation’s position on the issue of smoking
in aircraft cabins is based on scientific principles. In responding to
recommendations offered by the National Academy of Sciences in their report on
the Airliner Cabin Environment, the Department recognized that exposure to
environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) could be viewed as a problem by some crew
and passengers [emphasis added]. Iﬁey concluded, however, "that further
study is needed before the Department can propose a definitive response to
[the Academy’s] recommendation". The call for further study reflects the
simple fact that not enough is known about the concentrations of ETS in cabins
and therefore non-smokers’ exposure to ETS. Attitudes bearing on the issue
are currently more subjective than objective.

The scientific literature contains but a few reports providing
information regarding measurements of ETS in cabins. All these reports share
a common feature: data indicate ETS concentrations to be very low.

In a report to be published in October, 1987 in the American Chemical
Society’s periodical, Environmental Science & Technolo , Oldaker and Conrad
find ETS exposures in no-smoking sections to average 4 thousandths of a
"cigarette equivalent“* for an approximate one-hour flight. Additionally,
these researchers find that segregation effectively reduces non-smokers’

expoggge to ETS. Comparable exposures were reported by Japanese researchers
in . .

Historically, findings of low ETS concentrations extend back to the first
such reported study which was commissioned Jointly by the Departments of
Health Education and Welfare and Transportation. One notable aspect of this
study is that it was conducted before segregation was required. The other is
that the segregation requirement ultimately derived not from the results of

the measurements but from responses to questionnaires on passengers’ attitudes

toward smoking.

Experiments have also been performed involving measurements of flight
attendants’ bodily fluids in order to estimate exposure to ETS. These
experiments can be summarized with the conclusions drawn in the New England
Journal of Medicine by one research group representing the San Francisco

General Hospital Medical Center:

the quantity of [nicotine, an indicator of ETS] consumed
(equivalent to one cigarette) is relatively small compared
with that consumed by cigarette smokers, and the
concentrations achieved are unlikely to have physiologic
e ects.

.*The "smoke equivalent of a cigarette” is calculated from measurements of
nicotine and particles, major components of environmental tobacco smoke.
Calculation assumes a person breathing at a certain rate and a cigarette
delivering a sales-weighted average amount of nicotine and/or tar as reported
by the FTC. The cigarette equivalent is an estimate of ex osure and should
not be confused with gggg (that is, how much smoke a person Breathes and

- 1 -

9229 62905

 

CAMEL EQUITY STUDY (#350-60)
ANALYSIS MEETING (6/20/94)

1. Attitude Segmentation:

The objective is to identify the attitudes that embody the
spirit of young adult smokers.

- The segmentation is based on the responses to a
battery of 55 attributes on attitudes toward life.

. Initial results indicate two distinct groups that
reflect a CAMEL attitude.

. The first group is highly sociable and is
characterized by the following attitudes:

Want to live in/near a big city.

Prefer a party to a quiet night at home.
Too wild to settle down.

Having fun is extremely important.
Prefer an exciting adventurous life.
Important to keep up with new styles.
Fitting in with friends is important.

 

o o o o o O 0

Camel occasional usage is highest among this group.

- The other group is slightly more detached, as the
following attributes suggest:

Work is not important.

I don’t always think things through first.

Not important to keep up with new styles.

Not worth paying extras for well—known brands.
Fitting in with friends is not important.
People should be free to look, act and dress
the way they want.

This segment contains a high proportion of white
males in their late 20's and early thirties. It has
the highest proportion of Camel UB smokers, and is
the second highest on occasional usage.

. The largest segment include the conventional, work—
oriented, settled—down smokers who prefer a quiet,
secure life.

- The final group is the smallest, and has the most 3
pessimistic attitude. They tend to live for today, 3
and believe that its a waste of time to plan for
the future——life is just a matter of luck. :

FA
UJ

ross-cooperdundﬁnc.

 

_.,. .....u--.

THE TOBACCO INSTITUTE

 

1875 I STREET NORTHU'EST ROGER NIOZINCO
\\'.\SHI.\'CTO.‘~. DC; 21mm Vice Prvsident
202 437-42500- HUU 42-1-9817» Director of Field .'\Ctxvities
202 457-4816

October 5, 1982

The Honorable

Dorothy E. Sample

3110 First Avenue North
St. Petersburg, FL 33713

Dear Representative Sample:

On behalf of The Tobacco Institute, I am pleased to enclose
herewith our contribution to your election campaign. The
Tobacco Institute recognizes that good citizenship includes
involvement in the political process and giving support to
those legislators who give full and careful consideration to
all sides of an issue.

Accordingly, after consultation with our Legislative Represen-
tatives, Wilson Wright and William Roberts,we are delighted
to offer our support.

Best wishes in your coming campaign.

Sincerely,

;;§%:Z§T MoziEZ§v7§—-

RLM/s

Enclosure

cc: Wilson Wright, Esquire
William Roberts, Esquire

TIFL 0033497

UNION CARBIDE AGREEMENT SUMMARY

Objective: Carbonization of pulp paper in commercial quantities.

Term

 

July 1. 1986 r December 31, 1990
RJR option to extend for two additional 3-year terms.

Production

RJRT provides a 5-year forecast of quantities required from Union Carbide.
(Refer to Exhibit A)

Specifications attached; changed by mutual agreement.

RJR agrees to purchase 114M lbs. in 1986; minimum'purchases of 802 in years
1987-1989 and 602 in 1990 of the annual forecast.

RJR has right to oversee unloading and packaging at Union Carbide‘s (00)

facilities.

Purchasing Process

By September 1 of each year, RJR provides annual estimate of quantities for
the following year. based on 00‘s price. quality and service
competitiveness.

UC agrees to sell quantities to RJR through calendar years prior to 1990.
If 00 unable to meet scheduled needs, they must notify RJR within 30 days.
If purchases from 7/1/86 until 3/31/89 do not reach 3 million pounds, a
graduated shortfall payment is made (maximum of $500,000) to cover cost of
packaging system.

Warranty

00 warrants that carbonized paper was processed according to specifications.

Pricing

1986 price of $1.60/lb. and 1987 price of $1.35/lb. established.
By October 1 of each year. 00 and RJR will agree upon a price for the

following year.
Price cap established starting with 1988 ($1.50/lb.). Price components

are :

1) natural gas - based on annualized impact of actual cost increase
2) labor costs - based on union agreements
3) other costs - capped by annualized Producers Price Index

Ownership

RJR owns specifications and information concerning raw
material content.
UC owns production machinery and process methods.

 

U!
0
\II
'0
on
(A
\II
N
‘O

 

 

 

 

ATTACHMENT IV

MARKET: Toledo
MANAGER: Curtis Clingman

VAN SAMPLING PROGRAM
VAN PERSONNEL

You are to screen and hire one female distributor to work with the Van
Manager. One distributor will work with the Van Manager for each day
he is‘in the market. Your distributor will be responsible for
traveling with the Van Manager to each site and giving samples to
pedestrians (1 per person). The Distributor must not give samples to
anyone in cars, to anyone who appears to be under the age of 21, and
must always ask if the consumer is a smoker before offering a sample.
The Van Manager will have with him uniforms (sizes 8 - 10) and
sampling baskets.

VAN SITES

You must identify and schedule three distribution sites per day for
the van. These sites should include parks, shopping malls with
parking lots, picnic areas, concerts or other recreational facilities.
Please be certain that the van will not need a permit to sample or
play music at these sites. In essence, the Van Manager will be under
your direction for the days he's in your market. The Van will proceed
to each site, play music, and distribute samples. Written permission
must be obtained to sample on private property such as shopping malls.

In some markets, the client's local representatives have pre-planned
special events for the van to sample. In this case, there is no need
for you to schedule any additional sites for the van to sample on
special event day. (See attached Execution Calendar). For these
events, you'll need to provide the Van Manager with 2 or 3
distributors, depending on estimated attendance at the events, which
allows the van to distribute a 2 day (if using distributors)
allocation. This eliminates 2 or 3 days of sampling activity.
However, the van will still make site visits on the remaining days to
play music.

PRODUCT & PREMIUMS

In all markets, the product for the Van Manager will be with the local
client representative. The Van Manager will have all the information
needed to retrieve the product on his first day in the market, and be
responsible for it throughout the four days of executions. The Van
Manager will distribute premiums along with cigarettes in each market.
The premiums will be forwarded to you via UPS.

382% 675199

M E R PO ED TI

The proposed resolution, which would be implemented through legislation and a binding
contractual protocol to be entered into by participating members of the tobacco industry,
mandates a total reformation and restructuring of how tobacco products are manufactured,
marketed and distributed in the United States:

(1) by seeking to prevent underage access to, and dramatically reduce underage use of,
tobacco products;

(2) by conﬁrming the Food & Drug Administration’s authority to regulate tobacco
products under the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, with certain provisions applicable to tobacco
products;

i (3) by mandating changes in the corporate culture of tobacco companies; .

(4) by setting national requirements limiting smoking in public places (with State and
local governments remaining free to set more stringent requirements);

(5) by requiring that the participating members of the tobacco industry pay hundreds of
billions of dollars to fund medical research; public education; cessation programs; health-care
costs incurred by federal, state and local governments; and federal and state enforcement of the
restrictions imposed by the proposed resolution;

(6) by preserving the rights of individuals to sue the tobacco industry;

(7) by ensuring that members of the tobacco industry who seek to avoid the strictures of
the new regime will be held fully accountable for any injuries their products may cause; and

I (8) by establishing a comprehensive regime of federal regulation and federal and state
enforcement to implement these requirements.

The principal details follow.
1. Prevention of Underage Use of Tobacco Products

The proposed resolution strikes at the core problem of underage consumption of tobacco
products. The Food & Drug Administration (“FDA”) and other public health authorities have
concluded that virtually all new consumers of tobacco products are under legal age. The
proposed resolution attempts to cure what the FDA has termed a “pediatric disease” by
drastically curtailing advertising and marketing practices that have been criticized as appealing to
minors; by imposing strict controls restricting the sale of tobacco products to adult consumers
only; and by requiring dramatic reductions in the levels of underage use, with the tobacco

1

689604150
PRODUCED FROM B&W WriB S Tr'.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mortality Data: How Reliable? How Accurate?

For many years, the U.S. and other countries have
compiled "vital statistics" to monitor and study the health
status of their populations. Included in these vital statis-
tics are numbers of deaths, usually classified by cause. Such
mortality data can be useful in identifying and evaluating
trends in specific diseases, in setting health research
priorities, and, by way of epidemiological studies, in sug-
gesting factors that may be associated with certain diseases.
It is obvious that for valid conclusions to be drawn from
these types of statistical studies, mortality data must have a

high degree of reliability.

Sources of Mortality Data: Death Certificates

Mortality data generally come from death certificates.
As a result, scientists and statisticians have been concerned
with the quality of this source of information. Some comments
from the medical and scientific literaturel‘4 indicate the

depth of concern:

It has become obvious that in many cases the
diagnosis on a death certificate may have

actually no bearing whatsoever or any rela- ‘//4
tion to the cause of death of a given patient.

Disquiet exists about the accuracy of the
diagnostic information contained in the

medical certificate of cause of death even in

cases when a full post-mortem examination is
carried out.

ciob ”9°09

91

Lu...»

 

I8". Ib I“.

‘ mumm‘commv a“.

 

to L. H. Wassong ‘ lauunﬂbi

some: 14-2 row-m: A‘srmmczc am February 3. 1981 *E‘
psaspscnvs ‘ '
ovsnvzsw

 

It is the marketing policy of R. J. Reynolds to launch "spin-off“
Brands with a strong. independent, introductory advertising pro-
gram. The objectives of an independent launch are:

0 Rapid awareness, trial, purchase and conversion
of smokers to the new brand in the shortest time
possible.

0 To position the brand as an integral part of its
Brand family by communicating.
- Family taste a product heritage.
- Imagery consistant with Family.

Management has requested a point of view regarding the “fold-in"

possibilities for SALEM M~2. The key questions this document ad- ‘
dresses are: '

o Is M-Z-to be ”folded-in" to SALEM Family?
— If so, at what point in time?
o Is M-Z sufficiently different from other RJR “spin-off”
brands (objective, target. image, potential, etc.) and

if so, to what extent should the differences effect the
fold-in of M92?

0 Is there eno h “hard data” to make the "fold-in“ de-
cision now? 3 ‘ ‘

BACKGROUND

The management of R.J. Reynolds has made a key strategic marketing
decision to 'fold' individual Brand Style advertising campaigns ;
into a unified “Brand Family ' advertising campaign after a success—
full "free standing” advertising launch of the Spin-off brand. ‘-

\
‘

+ .,

  
 

06307?
H ‘t‘

 

 

H OGSHEAD CLERK PROGRAM

To stimulate interest and exposure for the new HOGSHEAD product in your
stores, we have developed some programs that can be utilized by your clerks.

Program One - Gear

For each clerk, we will supply a T—Shirt, campaign button and selling
brochure to be used to promote the product in your stores.

Program Two - Consumer Offer

For each clerk, we will supply 100 name generation cards to be used as
follows:

If a full price smoker will purchase at least one pack of HOGSHEAD and
complete the name generation card, the clerk, upon submitting completed cards to
his supervisor, will be rewarded for his efforts.

Notes

 

A. RJR is prepared to match a cash reward of up to $25 for each
card properly completed and approved by either the store
supervisor or the chain headquarters.

B. RJR will be sending coupons to purchase HOGSHEAD to the
consumer who completed the name generation card.

Please send the attached information sheet to the attention of Doug Shouse,
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, 401 N. Main Street, Winston-Salem, NC 27102,

to receive your clerk program kits.

This information needs to be received by Doug no later than September 8,
1995, to assure shipments prior to October 1 for use during introductory week.

If you have any questions on this program, please contact Doug Shouse at
910-741-5318.

0')
H
O)
(A)
8
(D
Ul
w
M

 

INDUSTRY YOUTH INITIATIVES

BACKGROUND

The tobacco industry has long taken a number of affirmative steps
in response to concerns about youth smoking. However, the youth
smoking issue continues to drive legislative issues and media
coverage —- and the levels of anti-smoking charges against the
industry on this issue are increasing.

OBJECTIVE

To demonstrate to the public, legislators and decision—makers,
that the tobacco industry has and continues to support its
longstanding :ommitment that its products are not for young
people.

To reaffirm and broaden this commitment, a five-pronged effort
has been deveLoped to counter youth smoking. The program
includes modeL state legislation for minimum age requirements;
model legislation for vending machine sales; a new youth industry
code; a retaiL sales initiative; and a new, tobacco—specific
booklet, to expand the industry's popular Responsible Living
Program.

THE INITIATIVﬂS

1. Retail Awareness Program

The tobacco industry will work with the retailers who sell
tobacco products to reinforce adherence to both state laws
and our own conviction that smoking is for those adults who
choose to smoke. The program is designed to assist the
retailing industry, and to enlist their support and
cooperation, in observing prohibitions against the sale of
tobacco products to persons who are below the legal minimum

Distribution will be through the membership of the co-
sponsoring organizations. The program will also be
advertised in state and national retail trade publications.
The Tobacco Institute will provide promotional kits in
numbers requested by the sponsoring organizations. Decals
and other materials, noting the sponsoring organizations,
will be provided at no cost to the co-sponsoring
organization.

CONFIDENTIAL:

MINNESOTA TOBACCO LITIGATION ,

TIMN 190657

 

 

 

A Human l’B-I’K Model for Simulating Nicotine Uptake from Transdermal Delivery
and Cigarette Smoking

Speaker: Dr. ]. Donald delSethizy Presentation Time: 45 minutes

Iluman exposure to nicotine can occur from tobacco use, E’I‘S, diet, gum, nasal spray, or
transdermal delivery. A human PBPK mode] for nicotine and a major nicotine
metabolite, cotinine, was developed from a previously published rat I’BPK model. A
novel f orcarm compartment was used to describe the blood sampling site in humans.

The model accounted for 20% decrease in nicotine clearance dun'ng cigarette smoking.
The human model predicts plasma concentrations of nicotine and cotinine following

intravenous injection, smoldng,:and transdermal delivery of nicotine. The model "

suggests that tissue kinetics following transdermal delivery closely resemble those via
steady-state intravenous infusion. The human forearm compartment overcomes some.
limitations when scaling a rat I’BPK mode] to humans where the venous sampling sites
are different.

This human I’BPK model for nicotine will be useful for examining differences in the
time course of pharmacodynamic responses to nicotine following the indicated routes
of administration.

 

" RADIO TV REPORTS, INC.

24300 MEADOWBROOK, NOVI, Ml 48050, (313) 478-4146

 

F°R TOBACCO INSTITUTE , INCORPORATED
PROGRAM STATION
Both Sides Now WTVS-TV
DATE CITY .
July 29, 1986 9:00 pm DetrOit

SHOULD TOBACCO ADVERTISMENTS BE BANNED?

TRUDY GALLANT: Two years ago the Surgeon General
challenged the American public to achieve a smoke free society by
the year 2000. The American Medical Association has accepted the
challenge by proposing a total ban on all tobacco advertisements
and they support a bill currently in the U.S. Congress to do just
that. It may turn out to be one of the most heated regulatory
debates of the year. Should we ban all tobacco advertisements?
That's our question tonight on Both Sides Now.

NARRATOR: Live from the studios of Channel 56, Both
Sides Now with Beth Conrad.

GALLANT: Good evening. I'm Trudy Gallant filling in
for the vacationing Beth Conrad. In 1971, cigarette ads were
banned from television. Now there is a m0vement to go even
further, a total ban on tobacco advertisements from billboards and
magazines to matchbook covers. It would also prevent tobacco
manufacturers from sponsoring athletic and artistic events. Dr.
Bruce Dubin is the spokesman for the American Lung Association of
Southeastern Michigan and a lung disease specialists. He believes
that ‘smoking is the number one preventable health problem in
America today and the advertising industry ought to be stopped
from portraying smoking as an acceptable social habit.

Scott Stapf is an assistant to the president of the
TOBACCO INSTITUTE in Washington, D.C. He says that such a
proposal would get a dangerous precedent toward curbing commercial
free speech. He also says there's not a shred of evidence that
cigarette advertising encourages people to smoke. So welcome

gentlemen to Both Sides Now.
, Dr. Dubin why should we ban cigarette advertising?

DR. BRUCE DUBIN: Very simply for this reason.
Cigarette smoking is the number preventable, very important word,

TIFL 0520178

OFFICES IN: NEW YORK - DETROIT ' LOS ANGELES - WASHINGTON. D. C. ' CHICAGO - AND OTHER PRINCIPAL CITIES

Wm. Mao W 3.90;“ Inc .nguvon 1o cum. mo Iccullcy oI mater-.9 suapllod by II. '1 Carma! b. Inponmmo Gov mum" at MISSION
mum: supplhd by halo TV 30mm. Inc. Inn be and Io: III. um manna puma" only. 1' In" no! DO mama. sold or publicly anon-true or unsure.

TMDA 0005747

 

MAINE LD356 DEFEATED

SAMPLING/ADVERTISING
ADVERTISING RESTRICTIONS

SPONSOR : REPS KIMBALL, MAYO, MELENDY; SEN GILL
COMMITTEE : JOINT BUSINESS LEGISLATION
COMPANION :

Would prohibit tobacco company sponsorship of community, sporting,

recreational or civic events under a registered product brand name.

02/12/87

Introduced and referred to Joint Business Legislation Committee.
03/2u/87 .

Joint Business Legislation Committee held hearing.
ou/O8/87

Committee unanimously granted sponsor leave to withdraw bill.
0H/10/87

House granted leave to withdraw.
0M/13/87

Senate formally granted leave to withdraw.
11/12/87

State Attorney General sent opinion to Joint Business
Regulation Committee that such an action would be preempted
by the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act.

ROLL CALL AVAILABLE: O PROCESSED: 01/23/1988 09:5u

TIMN 214477

 

The Liggett “Settlement” Doesn’t Change the Facts

The law isn’t determined by public relations.

That’s why courts and juries have consistently rejected arguments that the tobacco
industry should pay damages to smokers, and why courts continue to insist that states
cannot ignore the fact that individuals choose to smoke and states choose to make
substantial proﬁts in the form or excise taxes.

Perhaps that’s why Liggett received such favorable terms in their “settlemen .” Behind
the media hoopla, here are the facts:

0 A $25 million dollar payout. But only if Liggett is acquired or acquires another
tobacco company.
Translation: nothing.

0 A 25% payment from their proﬁts. Liggett isn’t making a proﬁt.
Translation: nothing.

We continue to believe that as a matter of law, the states’ Medicaid lawsuits are
fundamentally ﬂawed.

Attorney General Grant Woods of Arizona may have said it best a few months before
he decided to hop on the politically correct bandwagon.

In May 1996, the Arizona Business Gazette reported that Attorney General Woods said
he “never liked the idea of ﬁling suit against tobacco companies...such litigation made
little sense, particularly since smoking is a voluntary habit and cigarettes are

legal...Aﬂer all, if cigarette manufacturers could be sued for the detrimental health
effects of their products, 'why not the people who manufacture and sell alcohol? Or even
red meat?”

He was right then. He remains right today.

And what do other lawyers in this litigation think of this “settlement?” Stanley
Rosenblatt, a Miami lawyer handling two cigarette class-action suits in Florida, who --
when he learned of the class action ﬁled against and with the concurrence of Liggett --
told the New York Times: “This is a phony gimmick designed to enrich a bunch of
plaintiffs’ lawyers.” Rosenblatt told the Miami Herald, “1 have to take a deep breath to
avoid cursing...This attempted settlement is a disgrace.”

###

909$ bZSIS

 

 

whardoc

 

 

R.J. REYNOLQ§ OOH RESTRICTION ALERT

Alert Date: November 26, 1997

Effective Date: May 7, 1997

Restriction Geography: Anne Arundel County, Maryland
Restriction Details

Prohibits signs advertising tobacco products with the following exceptions:

. Allows tobacco advertising on mass transit and taxis

- Allows tobacco advertising adjacent to interstate highways

o Allows tobacco advertising W1 .W2 and W3 Industrial districts, if they are not
on property adjacent to school bus routes and are at least 1,000 from the
boundary of a district that does not allow signs.

0 Allows tobacco advertising in W1 .W2 and W3 industrial districts if they are at
least 500’ and face away from a district that does not allow signs

Ordinance does not apply to contracts executed prio to the effective date of
ordinance. It does apply if the renewal term of a pre—existing contract
commenced after the effective date

 

U!
Ix)
N
co
0‘
CO
to
to
~l

 

Chemistry of Nicotine/Levulinic Acid

- When nicotine is combined with levulinic acid in water up to

a ratio of tour equivalents of levulinic acid per equivalent
o; nicotine a monovalent nicotinium ion is formed. ‘5

- Only the pyrrolidine nitrogen of nicotine is protonated by
levulinic acid in water.

— When nicotine is combined with levulinic acid in benzene,
methylene chloride, or neat at a ratio of three equivalents of
levulinic acid per equivalent of nicotine a monovalent
nicotinium ion is formed. At ratios less than 3:1, ionization

of nicotine is incomplete.

- Only the pyrrolidine nitrogen of nicotine is protonated by
levulinic acid in benzene, methylene chloride. or neat.

- Solutions of nicotine and levulinic acid in nonpolar solvents
are good models for neat mixtures of nicotine and levulinic

acid.

- There is no evidence for a tight ion-pair between the
nicotinium ion and the levulinate ion in methylene chloride at
temperatures as low as -600 C (Le. ions not salt is formed).

8900 THIIIS

Phgtgggnying Oﬁggigl Identiﬁgntion

State Identiﬁcation (NC, VA)

North Carolina - No restrictions on photocopying identiﬁcation cards.
mgr: “. . . the acceptance thereof as valid identiﬁcation is a matter leﬁ entirely to

the discretion of the any person to whom the card is presented." (North Carolina
Gen. Stat. §20-37.7)

Virginia - “It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, advertise for sale,
sell or possess any ﬁctitious, facsimile or simulated . . . Virginia Department of
Motor Vehicles special identiﬁcation card . . . or in any way reproduce any
identiﬁcation card or facsimile thereof in such a manner that it could be mistaken
for a valid license or identiﬁcation of any type speciﬁed in this subsection.”
(Virginia Stat. §18.2-204.2)

Military Identiﬁcation

“The reproduction in any manner of the likeness of any identiﬁcation card
prescribed by DA or Department of the Air Force is prohibited without prior
approval in writing by the Secretary of the Army of Secretary of the Air Force.”

(32 CFR §507.11) Deﬁnitions: DA means “Department of the Army.” (32 CFR
§so7.3)

Gun Permit (NC, VA)

North Carolina - “The sheriff of the county where the pemiit was issued . . . may
revoke a permit subsequent to a hearing for any of the following reasons:

. . . (2) Misuse of a permit, including lending or giving a permit to another person,
duplicating a permit, or using a permit with the intent to unlawfully cause harm to
a person or property.” (North Carolina Gen. Stat. §14-415.18)

Virginia - “It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, advertise for sale,
shall or possess any ﬁctitious, facsimile or simulated , . . ofﬁcial identiﬁcation
issued by any other federal, state or foreign government agency; . . or in any way
reproduce any identiﬁcation card or facsimile thereof in such a manner that it could
be mistaken for a valid license or identiﬁcation of any type speciﬁed in this
subsection." (Virginia Stat. §18.2-204.2)

INS Card

“Whoever, knowingly forges, counterfeits, alters, or falsely makes any immigrant

or nonimmigrant visa, permit, border crossing card, alien registration receipt card,
or other document prescribed by statute or regulation for entry into or as evidence
of authorized stay or employment in the United States, or utters, uses, attempts to

99179 LSSIS

 

x-v , - ‘.—

_ BRAND-5‘ bus INE§§ u, NIT PRQDucT APPRQVAL NQTE

BBU Note No. 15-34 ' Date: 5119134

Temporary __ Effective Date 5127134 Termination Date "

Permanent 5

Type: Product X Process X Packaging __ Flavor__
Tobacco _ Material __ Other

SUBJECT: FULL PRICE ULTRA LIGHT NON-MENTHOL FILTER FLAVOR
ELIMINATION and PLASTICIZER OPTIMIZATION (Except for NOW

Products)

BACKGROUND: Currently, nine different filter flavors are used in our Premium
Domestic products. Of these, three are used in the full price non-menthol Ultra
Light styles.

Testing to date indicates that there is no significant taste difference in products
containing current levels of filter flavor, no filter flavor or ten times the current
level.

Plasticizer level optimization is a program designed to simplify operations by
reducing the number of plasticizer gears used by Manufacturing and to reduce
cost. There is no adverse effect on finished product.

RECOMMENDATION: Remove filter flavors from all full price non-menthol Ultra
Light styles with the exception of NOW (NOW will be considered under separate

evaluation). With the same filter specification change, optimize the plasticizer level >

in the filter.

RISK ASSESSMENT: All of the Ultra Light styles under consideration use the same
blend. P—roducts have been tested by the expert panel and are not significantly
different when containing either E235, E240, 5249, or no flavor. Additionally, this
material change provides greater flexibility and reduced waste in Manufacturing.

Plasticizer optimization has no adverse effect on the filter and will allow gearing
consolidation on the filter makers.

COST IMPLICATIONS: For the entire group of products, the cost savings for filter
flavor elimination and plasticizer optimization is $72,000 annualized.

8911‘ 877.15

COCONINO COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

 

GEGEGE J. GRAHAM
Dunner

Youth Access to Cigarettes
in Flagstaff, AZ

W

A recent round of unannounced compliance buys at 63 Flagstaff
tobacco retailers and vending machines has shown that minors could
easily buy cigarettes. Compliance buy surveys completed nationwide
have documented that about 50—100% of the attempts were successful.

In Flagstaff, fifteen to sixteen year old youths bought cigarettes
61.4% of the time. The percentage jumps to 92% from.vending
machines. Over half of the vending machines were in clear sight of
employees, nonetheless, minors still bought cigarettes.

Warning signs stating the 18 year old age limit to purchase tobacco
products were posted at only 25.9% of locations. Identification
was asked of the minors only 33.7% of the time. On two occasions,
even after presenting the clerk with underage identification, the
clerk still sold the cigarettes to the minor.

Businesses most likely to sell to a minor were, gas/convenience
(46.6%), restaurant/bar (100%), and Other which included
hotels/motels, and bowling alleys (88.6%). Almost all in the
restaurant/bar and Other category were vending machines.

METHOD

In February, 1994, unannounced inspections (compliance buys) were
conducted at almost all Flagstaff tobacco retailers and vending
machines. This included 56 locations where cigarettes can be
bought over-the-counter, and 27 vending machines. Although the
sample used was not random, nearly all of the tobacco retailers
were covered.

Minors ages 15-16 attempted to buy cigarettes at a total of 63
locations. Two minors, or a minor and adult escort (who would walk
in after minor to avoid association) entered the tobacco retail
outlet or vending machine location. The minor located the
cigarettes, picked a name brand (Marlboro, Camel), brought them to
the cashier and attempted purchase. For vending machines they
would put the money in and buy the cigarettes. If the minor was
asked their age or for I.D., they were instructed not to lie, and
to show their I.D.

After the purchase attempt, the minor filled out a questionnaire
that collected objective information based upon their observations

of the location, situation and experience.
TIAZ 0001019

2500 NORTH FORT VALLEY ROAD - FLAGSTAFF ARIZONA 36001 0 (502) 779-5164

807017, .; ﬂ . Author
Date

__aaiiiﬁﬂﬂﬂnnu-u~‘

  
 

.n._.,._..__.
Brief descri tion of stud and note on current ro ress ‘w-~*-——'

P.N. Lee
29.11.81

The Hospital Inpatients Study is a case-control study funded by
the Tobacco Advisory Council carried out under the direction of Professor

M.R. Alderson, formerly of the Institute of Cancer Research, and now at

status, height, weight, area of residence, occupation, social class,
education, family history of disease, presence of cardiorespiratory
symptoms,'past history or certain diseases, use of the pill and whether past

the menopause (women only), drinking or tea, coffee and alcohol.'

 

UPHOLSTERED

FURNITURE
Acnou
couucu -
Box 2438
CM

Hlﬂh Palm, NC 27261
(919) 385-5085

FABRIC CLASSIFICATION TEST METHOD- - 1990

I. BACKGROUND

To participate in the UFAC Voluntary Action Program, upholstered
furniture manufacturers must agree to produce their furniture in
accordance with the basic UFAC construction criteria. In order to
identify component materials which meet the UFAC requirements, a test
method is needed to define acceptable performance in each criterion.

II. SCOPE

This test method is intended as the means of establishing the
performance level of upholstery cover fabrics in contact with
polyurethane foam with respect to cigarette ignition resistance.
Fabrics which meet the requirements of this test method may be labelled
as UFAC Class I, and may be used directly over conventional polyurethane
in the horizontal seating surfaces of upholstered furniture bearing the
UFAC hangtag. All other fabrics are UFAC Class II and require an
approved barrier between the cover fabric and conventional polyurethane
foam in the horizontal seating surfaces.

III. GENERAL PROCEDURE

Vertical and horizontal panels of two inch UFAC Standard Polyurethane

Foam substrate are covered, using the fabric to be tested. The panels
are placed in three specimen holders and a lighted cigarette is placed
in each crevice formed by the abutment of vertical and horizontal panels
of each assembly. Each cigarette is covered with a piece of sheeting
fabric. The cigarettes are allowed to burn their entire length, unless
an obvious ignition occurs. Test measurements and observations are
recorded. A minimum of three test specimens are required for each cover

fabric sample to be classified.

IV. DEFINITIONS

 

l. IGNITION: Continuous, self-sustaining smoldering combustion of
upholstered furniture substrates after exposure to burning cigarettes.
2. OBVIOUS IGNITION: Pronounced continuous and self-sustaining

combustion of the test system. Determination is a matter of operator
judgement based upon experience in this type of testing. c

3. SAMPLE: Upholstery cover fabric material being classified.

4. SPECIMEN: Individual piece of sample used in one test assembly.

5. CHAR: Area of fabric which is destroyed or degraded from face top
back, not including the area which is only discolored by smoke.

April 1, 1990

PIVQ 95805

WHY YOUNG PEOPLE
BEGIN SMOKING

nti-smoking advocates and government

researchers have long acknowledged

that family and peers are the primary
inﬂuences on smoking by young people. The
Director of the National Institute of Child Health
and Human Development before Congress put
it simply: ”The most forceful determinants of
smoking [by young people] are parents, peers
and older siblings,”

These inﬂuences, unlike the asserted inﬂuence
of cigarette advertising, have been shown to be

both powerful and direct.

A national study published by the federal government in
1992 reports, "The smoking practices of older brothers or
sisters living at home were more closely associated with
teenager smoking than was parental smoking. Thirty
percent of adolescents reported currently smoking in
homes where only older siblings smoked, compared with
15 percent of teenagers from homes where only their
parents smoked."

”As expected, the smoking patterns for both teenage boys
and girls were highly correlated with the smoking
practices of their closest friends. Teenagers with no best
friends of the same sex who smoked, seldom smoked
(about 3 percent). However, almost half of adolescents
with at least two best friends who smoked were smokers
themselves,” the report said.

A four-country survey conducted by the World
Health Organization (WHO) further provides
support for the inﬂuences of peers and family as
the most forceful determinants of youth smoking.
The WHO study, published in 1986, reported:

 

 

”Studies of why people start
smoking identify the inﬂuences of
parents, siblings, and friends as the
most important causal factors. ”

THE PRESIDENT’S COUNCIL or ECONOMIC ADVISORS

 

 

"When young people start smoking, the most important
predictor is the smoking behavior and smoking—related

Ill

activities of ’significant others .

"The strongest statistical relationships are found with the
smoking habits of the best friend.”

The survey also found that smoking among school
children is “strongly related to the number of smokers in
the family.”

Peers and family members have been repeatedly
demonstrated to play a key role in smoking by
young people. Cigarette advertising, on the
other hand, has not.

Advertising was listed by one percent of responv
dents in 1991 — and not listed at all in 1993 — in
a Gallup survey as the principle inﬂuence on the
decision to smoke. Peer pressure and family
inﬂuence were cited by almost three-quarters of
respondents as the major factors.

(continued on back)

TI1354-0621

WEEKLY ACTIVITY REPORT
Week of April 28, 1986

NAME: Alexander H. King

REGION:

Region V

I. LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY:

Alaska:

MONTANA:

OREGON:

— Lunch (in Seattle) with Sen. Robert Ziegler. He does
not expect any end—of-session tax surprises; session
scheduled to adjourn 2nd week of May, however, legislature
might extend for ten days to complete work on tort reform
and subsistence program.

— Provided Citizens for Tax Justice and Coalition Against
Regressive Taxation materials to T.I. counsel Jerome
Anderson, in preparation for June special session.

- Arranged for meeting in D.C. with Sen. J.D. Lynch, and
Repr. Dan Harrington (House Taxation Comm./Asst. Dem.
Ldr.) with RLM, at request of Jerome Anderson — T.I.
counsel.

— Eugene, OR: meetings held with Mark W. Perrin, atty.;
re: sampling ordinance. Perrin has meeting scheduled with
City Atty for 5/5/86.

Attempts to re-generate coalition formed several years
ago, during Eugene public smoking ordinance debates, not
meeting with success. Local vendors not supportive of
sampling programs; restaurateurs don't want sampling; not
yet getting sympathetic response from C of C.

WASHINGTON: “

- Contacted David Figuracion; Tacoma, WA; re: press
reports about his potential suit challenging SB 4519. He
was working with an attorney on a ”volunteer" basis, but
now that he finds he has to actually file suit challenging
emergency clause vs filing of referendum, atty is not
available (atty works in County Prosecutor's office).

Told him, as instructed, that we could have our attorney’s
share research on SE 4519 with his attorneyfs). He has
spoken with several people who have expressed support;
they will probably help him raise $70 filing fee; he'll
explore finding an attorney and get back to us. He has
own computer software firm he operates from his home-not
unusual in Puget Sound area.

TNWL 0002042

June 25, 1975

Animal ,SERGJ‘LHH boulder. Colorado

The animal research program 's described at
pages ?2 and following of the overall descriptive mate—
rial. For convenience, copies of this description and
the budget for this work are attached.

Dr. Sommers describes the personnel involved
as a multi—disciplined team of behavioral geneticists
with expertise in modern techniques, including work with
the central nervous system, and with a background in

alcohol. In broad terms, their belief, with which Dr.

Sommers concurs, is that there is a strong likelihood that.

animal strains can be developed which will accept or reject
nicotine, so that the neurologic and metabolic bases of
this preference can be explored. With this information,
they would then hope to be able to do similar research
with respect to smoking, as opposed to nicotine alone.

According to Dr. Sommers and the other members
of the scientific review group, the team consists of fully
competent investigators, interacts very well and appears
to present the best opportunity to discover whether there
is a behavioral genetic basis for nicotine preference (and
then, perhaps, smoking preference) in animals.

As to benefits of this work by itself, Dr.

Sommers indicated the following:

'7ng 9SFO§

 

New Jersey Cigarette Tax Overview — 25 centipagk mew

An additional 25 cent/pack cigarette tax would increase the state's tax to 65 cents/pack and
make New Jersey‘s cigarette tax the ninth highest in the country and almost twice the national

average (37 cents per pack).

Many studies show excise taxes -- especially “sin" taxes -- are particularly regressive in their
effect on modest to low-income people. In fact, a 1997 Peat Marwick study that households
that make under $30,000 a year pay 47% of all tobacco taxes. Without doubt, those who can
least afford the tax will be hit the hardest.

In 1991, when New Jersey increased cigarette taxes by 13 cents/pack1 cigarette sales collapsed
by 12 percent. At the same time (1991-1996), Delaware‘s sales increased by 15 percent. This is
a pattern seen in many states. People don’t quit smoking when taxes are raised, they simply
change their buying habits.

Aﬁer a 25 cent/pack tax hike, New Jersey consumers could save $6.50 per canon on New York
Indian reservations, $5.50 per carton in Delaware, and $3.40 per carton in Pennsylvania In
addition, New Jersey’s otherwise IaWoabiding citizens could save $6.00/carton by buying
cigarettes in North Carolina and $6.25/carton in Virginia

According to the National Association of Convenience Stores, many retailers, especially small
“mom and pop" stores, rely on tobacco for as much as 30 percent of their yearly proﬁts.

It is estimated that New Jersey‘s 1,700 convenience stores alone stand to lose $74 million in
cigarette sales and $56 million in sundry product sales (sales of other products) if cigarette taxes
are increased 25 cent/pack.

Gross proﬁts, or the value added, lost to New Jersey convenience stores because of increased
cigarette taxes could be about $27 million or $15,800 per store.

The American Economics Group (AEG) estimates that a 25 cent increase will reduce New
Jersey‘s cigarette volume by 93 million packs.

A 25 cent/ pack cigarette tax hike could lead to a $350 million commercial loss for New Jersey
that includes:

- $195 million in lost cigarette sales;
- $156 million in lost tie-in or sundry product sales; and

- $73 million in gross proﬁts for retailers and wholesalers.

7805 ODQIS

 

Decemb

.‘ .. \ A
er 22, 1975 ' y“ y
)

Mr. s. c. Wooten , r-y /’
o / . 3‘. /I
Re: CMEL FILTER DIRECT MAIL MARKETING EFFORT \: ,5” _‘ . .
ﬁan‘a'75-o‘7‘2’7‘1 "' ‘ ""' ' " , // ‘ " -. ‘ . ._“\
4", (I/ J . I /. /‘ '
gunposs 3.2:!) BACKGRO vs ‘ /,/", . . ’
t/'/ ’- ‘ /i
This study was conducted to determine the effect of the :AMEL’ r
Filter direct mail program on brand awareness, trial, purchase, ’ {‘
and attitudes. In addition, results of the study will assist 4 \
in evaluating the desirability of an expanded CAMEL Filter ,‘J
direct mail program for 1976. r)‘” .
A solo mailing of approximately 171,000 coupons wortn 25¢ off
on the purchase of a pack of CAMEL Filter cigarettes were 1”,”;

mailed to motorcycle registr

ants in the Los Angeles/Orange

County areas. In addition to the 25¢ coupon, recipients also

received a free CAMBL Pro Se
announcing CAMEL Pilter's ra
of selected racing premiums,
racing jackets, Pro Series p
proofs of purchase.

The study was conducted on a
interviewed prior to and fol

EUMMARY OF FINDINCE
0 There were no significant
purchase of, or attitudes

0 Only 34% of the respondent
coupon, while a mere 2% st

coupon. Although not enou
coupon redemptions, prelim

3 Approximately 60% of respo
20% over age 50.

9 Smoking incidence among th
44% national average for m

9 Significant increases were
sponsorship of motorcycle

ries racing decal, a letter

cing sponsorship, and a coupon offer
i.e., sun visors, tie-dye T-shirts,

atches, at liquidating prices with two

pre/post basis, with respondents

.21
lowing receipt of the coupon envelope./T

increases in either awareness, trial,
toward CAMEL Filter.

5 recalled receiving the CAMEL Filter
ated that they had redeemed the

gh information is available to project
inary data indicate a low response level.

ndents were over the age of 34, with
e respondents was 25%, compared to a
ales.

noted in the awareness of CAMEL Filter's
and G. T. racing. Sponsorship awareness

increased from 38% (pre) to 58% (post) for motorcycle racing and

from 37% to 46% for G. T.

racing.

U‘
C
U
0
N
0‘
U
0‘
Q

 

MAIL ORDER PROGRAM ISSUES
11/05/96

SHIPPINQ CO§TS - kay consulting with distribution to determine ideal shipping method and
estimated cost. program requires quick turn around. kay and cary to perform process timing
assessment. key issue: team needs to assess total program turnaround for mailed-in orders
to evaluate customer satisfaction with the program. same assessment needed for phone
orders.

LIMITING PRQGRAM SCOPE BY QEQQRAPHY - key is investigating the following with tax:

minimum tax stamp order quantity and cost by state, and states Which require multiple or complex
stamping requirements. drew is investigating 3rd party age veriﬁcation on the sdb by state to assist
in selecting target states. key issue: limiting risk in successfully running a test program where
a new process is employed. keeping costs low for a test program until we can define success
and expand the program on a measured capability basis. brand has agreed with this strategy

and will be consulted on state selection. this will impact the geography for the newpaper ad. need
to coordinate with agency/supplier mailing to ensure they are in mail order test states.

brand has a preliminary target for the cell 1 and 1B mailings:
- san francisco. CA

- suffoik co. NY

- dallas. TX

- denver. CO
these are being reviewed by external relations to identify any issues (alternate targets are: santa

barbara, CA; southern CA; ft. lauderdale, FL; kansas city. M0
brand has a preliminary target for the newspaper ad: detroit. Ml

brand wants to purchase tax stamps for all approved mail order states. is. if an inquiry or referral
contact comes in, the appropriate order form would be sent and orders fulfilled. '

the program must exclude any area where the product is available at retail....shouid this be
accomplished by zip code/county?

QQALIFIQATIQN FQR QARTQN QRDER§ - cell 3 participants will be "authorized" to order a carton
on the ﬁrst order. all other cells will require the person to order the sample kit before placing a

carton order. a limit of 8 cartons per month must be tracked, and when exceeded proper
disqualification letter sent. key issue: a method needs to be established at YA to determine the
validity of a carton order. as sample klt orders are received, these people will then be
authorized to order a carton. cary will investigate the possibility of developing a list of these
people. we need to confirm the copy on the sample kit order form to ensure participants
understand why their ﬁrst order is limited and can expect a revised order form in the first mail
order shipment. we also need to confirm the flow of order form fulﬁllment taking Into
consideration 3rd party age verification status.

EXTENDED USER/PAST RESEARCH PARTICIPANT IDENTIFIQATIQN - thls requires work from

the brand to identify those they want to include, follow-up to determine if these names have been
imported from research status to the sdb, and confirmation from IIR on usability of names.

ELSE 98239

 

Author: Robert L. Oglesby June 26, 1979

Division: Process Develo ment ’
TDM, 1979, No.: 31
Number of Pages: 9 8 EC R ET

Project No.: 2817 . ; NO. 20 By

TEST L-13 257 - WINSTON MENTHOL 100's
WITH NWA FILTER.

 

 

OBJECTIVE:

Determine parameters necessary to place this brand into production
with non—wrapped acetate (NWA) filters.

SUMMARY:

Various porosity tipping papers were used with the NWA filters on WINSTON
Menthol 100 cigarettes in order to arrive at an air dilution system which equals
the standard. TPM, smoke panel, and physical properties analysis indicate that
a 70 second (470 Coresta P)3 electrostatic perforation achieves the desired
results. Heat seal tipping (HST) is the preferred method of sealing the filter,
although limited tests with an emulsion adhesive were also successful.

Another test, L-13,408 has been produced (and packed) in order to increase
our confidence that 70 seconds is the proper tipping porosity and to perform

a U. S. Mail Panel test to compare the NWA to our present cigarette.
DISCUSSION:

Regular 68 mm. green line cork tipping was gravure coated with a diamond
pattern (See Attachment 1) in the perforating area. Bobbins were then elec-
trostatically perforated to approximately 50, 70, and 90, seconds (650, 470,
and 350 Coresta P.). A chart of porostiy measurements and their percent
standard deviations for both Gurley and Coresta P. is presented in attachments.

Test cigarettes were produced on May 24 in Factory #1-3, Mark 9/PA-8
machine #1. Machine start-up and the test run was without problem. No
bad-wrap was encountered with the HST/NWA combination. One leg of the test
involved using NWA filters and Sampson #EX-267/9 emulsion adhesive with the

skip—gap-gummer. The machine started and made enough good cigarettes for
test purposes, but the run was too short for a judgment of its mechanical
performance.

4;._~~-—‘—-\' _ ‘ ‘h/M ”Ana—“d...” .. . . ‘

“rail“...

Z095 osnos

 

 

The Tobacco Institute September 1995

SALES RESTRICTIONS

 

WI NIN

ADAMHA COMPLIANCE:
No state law speciﬁcally designates enforcement or reporting to meet federal
ADAMHA requirements.

MINORS—18:

Prohibits the sale or distribution of tobacco products to minors.

It is a defense to prosecution for a retailer if purchaser presented "identiﬁcation card"
and appearance was that of person at least 18 years of age. "Identiﬁcation card" is
deﬁned as a card issued under s. 343.50 or s. 125.08.

Prohibits the purchase or attempt to purchase tobacco products by minors.

Prohibits the possession of tobacco products by minors.

Exempts minors from purchase and possession prohibition if during the course of
employment during working hours and employed by a licensed retailer.

Wolators will be subject to a ﬁne of up to $500 for ﬁrst offense in one year, $200500
and/or suspended license for 3 days for second offense, license suspended for 3-10
days for third offense, license suspended for 15-30 days for fourth offense within
one year.

[Senate Bill 155, 1991; Stat. Ann. Section 48.983(2)(a) and (3).]

SIGN REQUIREMENTS:

State law requires a sign to be posted in retail establishments that states that the
sale of any cigarette or tobacco product to a person under 18 is unlawful. Vending
machines must have a sign posted on them that says the purchase of tobacco
products is unlawful and purchaser will be subject to a ﬁne up to $25. [Stat Ann.
134.66(2)(b)(1) and (2)(b)(2).]

LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
State law requires a license from the Department of Revenue issued through the

municipal clerk for the retail sale of tobacco products and for tobacco vending
machines. [Stat Ann. Section 5051(1) and (2), 139.30 and 139.34.]

VENDING MACHINE RESTRICTIONS:
State law prohibits the location of tobacco vending machines within 500 feet of a
school. [Senate Bill 155. Act 95, 1991; Stat. Ann. Section 134.66.]

PREEMPTION:

State law says "A county. town, village or city may adopt an ordinance regulating the
conduct regulated by this section (48.983) only if it strictly conforms to this section."
[Stat Ann. Section 48.983(5).]

On 10/27/94, Wisconsin Circuit Courtjudge ruled from the bench that a local

CEZZS

EELS

The Tobacco Institute

 

 

1875 I Street, Northwest
Washington, DC 20006
(800) 424-9876
. . . 0N YOUTH SMOKING
REDUCING ACCESS

Health and Human Services Secretary Louis Sullivan has proposed measures whereby
states would take new legislative action on proposals such as licensing tobacco retailers
and banning vending machines.

Such measures are misdirected. The National Automatic Merchandising Association, the
national trade association of the vending industry, indicates that nearly 80 percent of all
cigarette vending machines are located where persons under the age of 18 are not
allowed access or rarely frequent.

0 Almost a third of all cigarette vending machines are located in bars and
cocktail lounges. Nearly 40 percent are found in industrial plants and ofﬁces,
and almost 8 percent are found in hotels. motels and other generally adult
settings. Thus, a ban on cigarette vending machines would primarily remove
adult - not youth - access.

Those few vending machines that are located in places where youth may
irequent should be supervised. The tobacco industry will support legislation
in the states to accomplish this goal. This action - not a ban on vending
machines in workplaces or bars - will help reduce youth access.

Licensing of tobacco retailers is also suggested as a regulatory approach to reducing
purchase of cigarettes by young people. However, the logic used — that tobacco should
be sold in the same restrictive manner as alcohol -- also argues against this as an
effective solution.

0 A 1989 Health and Human Services report tells us that "despite the fact that
it is illegal for virtually all high school students and most college students to
purchase alcoholic beverages, experience with alcohol is almost universal
among them and active use is widespread." The report indicates that two of
every three high school seniors report alcohol use in the last month.

Right now, it is illegal for cigarettes to be sold to minors in almost every
state in the country. Laws are already in place. Enforcement of these laws
is the best way to keep adult products, like eigarettes,-fmm being sold to
young people.

In the past — and for the future —- the tobacco industry has maintained responsible
positions on the issue of smoking by young people. The longstanding policy of cigarette
manufacturers is that the choice to smoke or not to smoke is to be made by informed
adults.

 

T|0607-1122

 

 

 

 

ANALYST IMPRESSIONS

I listened to several impromptumedia interviews of Analysts.
In general, the Analysts' answers were precise, low-key and

favorable about the development.

They also refused to speculate on questions designed to

elicit a negative and/or controversial response.

John of the Wall Street Journal asked one analyst if this

product failed would it "be like the introduction of new.

Coke?" the answer was:

"Of course not; Coke withdrew a product and RJR is not doing
that. Also this is nowhere near the same level of spending

and commitment.

Another analyst said it “is a good move because RJR has
nothing to lose here. It's a technological advancement and

that puts them on the leading edge. But, if it doesn't fly

they have really not invested that much.

m
c
o
A
u
m
w
‘V
c

 

@ CONFIDENTIAL

Aufhor: Calvin L. Neumann May 28, i974

Division: Chemical Research Nofebook Pages: 265663-265665,
265672, 263l56-263l57
CIM, i974, No. I2
Dafed: April 22, i974 lo
No. of Pages: 2 May 28, I974

Disclosure No.I-132-R Previous Reports: None

__.___._-—_.._

FILTRATION 9f NICOTINE
SUMMARY:

Cacao bean hulls, when used as a fiiier for smoking maferiais, have
been shown To seiecfively remove nicofine from The malnsfream smoke.

MEMORANDUM:

§

In conjuncfion wifh anofher study, cacao bean hull sheefs were examined
as a filler maferial. Clgareffes were prepared from KF Tobacco, 85 mm +o+al
iengfh, wlfh a 42.5 mm filler made from cacao bean huil sheefs. Sul1able
confrols were made entirely from KF fobacco. Table I shows dafa.

TABLE I

 

.SMOKE DATA FOR CACAO BEAN HULL FILTERS

Analysis Qer cigareffe KF confroi KF wifh filfer
puff count 6.6 8.5

TPM, mg l3.7 l3.9
Nicoflne, mg l.6l 0.59

TPM, H20, mg l.| |.i

FTC "far" mg il.0 i2.|

Analysis ger QUff

TPM, mg 2.i0 l.64
Nicofine, mg 0.246 0.070
FTC "far" mg g l.68 i.44

Panel members found +he fesf clgareffes mild and accepfabie, while +he
confrols were harsh and sirong.

6059 9lﬁOS

 

O . 6 £3233:5( xmmxr< 3%2: #
.ummmnnw ax~mxmm 3:03: mxoa\ma momma mwoo
ﬁﬂOZOdnoz>P mcxx>w<

9.2 w. L. wm<ZOPOM 40m>hho no.
.0. 20: o. 91$? 95 noxv>z< 398:? SS h>3mr Md>0 HC! vowdmﬁ nuuq rpm
Noxaxad Illllll.

 

{9:33 323350.20-.:ON~O_.:NNNG~U..¢VN mm: DAQQNAQ VZDIC M4>NHMI U Om. mm ﬁxozo mzoml O\UO\Q”

3: 3.039 .99 ”ﬁnite
. CZHAM diam tmmx cz~qm «c D>qm zozm< Axum :mmz zozm< do o>4m

_. mmq~z>qmo rmqqm» noczq o up
~. <mx~m~mo >. <>r~o pa Ho «-.oo upo.oo w
m. ~z<>r~o p p w
«04>rm pm ~o A
u. <>r~o >. exonmmmmo - we
w. amgmnqmo o o
n. ocur~n>qmm o o Mr
qoq>rm "a go %
nun.an.nonunnun-n-uua.uauaauu:qunsuu.nsn-cusuu.ou-ucn..nuuuu---o.onun-nn:nuuuuunuunuuuuuusuuu-u y
a. wom4>nm >. amncr>x mzHuzmzqm mu
a. :ocmm oxomzm o pqo ..oo .m.uq p»
n. xmur>nmzmzqm o o ..oo ».oo dd
a. vomq>om ocm u.oo u.oo a»
4oq>rm c pqo u.oo um.u4 Kw
m. zﬁmnmrr>zmocm mw
>. nozmcxmw noapmmwozomznm p p ..+m u.+m ow
a. mvmn~>r nrmann>r :ocam »
n. oazm» ,$

"‘..-.'.. I ....‘.":III" ' l'.|--ll-'.. -"-""- 1"--- -'|-‘-'..-l-""-'-"'-""-'|'

tron»): mecmemu

mmzo uncoo hzmnx ow Iozm< owOmw Ind: Z>2m >20 >Oormmw >zc M4>4mxm24u J
an nmn4~m< HI>H H >3 > wxoxmw >4 Pm>Md ~H <m>wm DPOoI %
mm4H3>HmD wmomIVdnoz 0 Gomuwo .

 

v—q.;_—w.~me-

XEROX TELECOPIER 295 ; 11— 1—39; 2:27 PM: 217 544 0974 9 6360907 ; #14
IL TDERCC” + EQNDT DI? TEL No.217—54d-06Td Nov. 1.89 1&226 P.14

W

The Coalition on Smokin or Health is an organization funded b the American

c n r Societ American Heart Association and American fun a ociation to lobb
on tobacco re ated issues at the federa eve . he ition sta . Matt Nyers
and cliff Douglas, are a attorneys. With Eﬁiir expertise in this area'and
knowledge of case precedence. we felt they could help us identify any potential
problems with our legislation. especially Section 0 dealing with discrimination.
He were hoping they could give us additional information that would help people

feel more comfortable with that section.

 
     

Cliff and Matt offered some interesting insights that are very important as we
negotiate with the tobacco people. Unfortunately. they are not very reassuring.

They feel Section 9 has to be considered in light of the rest of the bill. They
have a number of cautions about the bill which are outlined below.

i. fhey do not see the bill as being a private work place bill. Section 3c
defines public place and would appear to include private work places.
However, Section 4 states that the law 'ehall not apply to factories.
warehOuaes and similar places of work n9t_gggg11x_1ngugntg§_gy_;ng_ggngggj
ggnllcg' hatt and cliff feel a good case could be made that this law does not
cover private companies. i.e. insurance companies. lawyers' offices. our
offices. because these are not places where the public generally comes.
Because of the way the bill is worded. the intent of the legislation is not
clear. The language in Section 5 which refers to the proprietor of a private
structure that includes a public place opuld be seen as strengthening this
argument. It is their feeling that the tobacco industry would Jump at the
first opportunity to test this in caurt.

2. Section 5 permits the establishment of a designated smoking area and further
states that existing barriers can be used to minimize the intrusion of smoke
into areas where it is not permitted. This creates many potential problems.

A. It establishes smoking in certain areas as the norm. A smoker could use this
language with'that in Section 4 regarding places not usually freouented by the
public to challenge an employers' right to make a building totally nonsmoking
or to not hire a smoker, especially if the discrimination section ls left
intact.

B. Another scenario is that of the smoker who works on the edge of a smoking

section right next to the nonsmoking section in a place of mloyment. If
existing barriers and ventilation are not adequate to keep smoke out of the
nonsmoking section. nonsmokers would essentially be powerless. They wouldn't
be able to do anything because the law allows a smoking section. the person is
in the smoking section. barriers only have to minimize intrusion of smoke and
the smoker can not be discriminated against. Consequently. the very people we
are trying to protect could be left unprotected without any alternatives.

c. In Pittsburgh. the tobacco industry has mounted a massive campaign promoted as
‘AcCcIuodation ~ he are fair to everyone”. Using ads. posters. stickers for
doors and windows. etc.. they are using the law there to encourage designated
smoking areas everywhere.

TIILBC 020263

.__”sm..am““mn_____________._..__________W_______“~ﬂ_ﬂmmwwd_m_“7mhvwh-

 

RJR MEDIA

Position Paper No. 8 Subject: Translating National Media
- . Programs of Cigarette ProduCts

Into Test Market Situations; .

I

Background - The Corporation is presently committed to test marketing
several new cigarette brands. Given the uniqueness of each brand's
marketing strategy, it would not be feasible to formulate a media
translation procedure encompassing all possible test situations. However,
a general course of action is evident which may be applied to most test
market translations.

In scope, the following will set down a general media policy for test
market concepts, market selection, and the mechanics of media:

Discussion ~ Test Market Concepts

~ There are two test market concepts which MRD may use in reading the .

Q

results of a market test—~"National Simulation" or "Division Simulation."

The following is a discussion of these two concepts and the implications
which they have for developing a media translation:

National Simulation ("Little U.S." Translation) - In this situation,
each test divisioh serves as a model for the total 0.8. marketing

area. Ideally, there are three test divisions, each with a population

of 500M+, In addition, the configuration of each diviSion in terms

of metro, rural, and ethnic population, sales distribution, and media
penetration should closely resemble that of the national market as

a whole. Obviously, it is doubtful that any test‘division will
exactly conform to both the 0.5. population profile and the coverage
provided by a national media plan; usually, the selected division
represents the best compromise under the circumstances.

In addition to MRD's criteria for selecting a division for test

(801, category development, etc.), these media and demographic
factors should be considered: '

1) Metro population: % division vs. % total 0.8.

2) Rural population (C & D counties): % division vs. % total 0.8.

‘3) Ethnic population (Black and/or Spanish): % division vs.
% total 0.8.

4) National magazine penetration in the division vs. total \\
0.8. average. NOTE: The county-by-county circulation of
the magazines should be determined to acknowledge geographic
circulation variances.

L809 03005

rig, ‘ ‘6‘,

BROWN & WILLIAMSON
TOBACCO

Marketing Research - Summag Regen
Lucky Strike Expansion Test Market Monitor - Wave 2

BACKGROUND / OBJECTIVES

In February 1998, Lucky Strike expanded its test market into three additional markets, Chicago, New York and
Miami (referred to as the expansion markets). This expansion was in addition to San Francisco, Los Angeles/ San

Diego, and Sacramento (the Original markets).

The target segment for the Lucky Strike Filters was defined as free-thinking, independent-minded Male 21-30 Full
Revenue, non-menthol, non-ultra, and non-slime smokers who smoke primarily Marlboro and Camel.

Marketing Obiectives

The marketing objectives are to create awareness, generate trial and conversion, and enhance Lucky Strike
imagery. The Marketing mix elements included:

- Advertising in ‘trendy' magazines, alternative newspapers, and OOH
. ln-Store Promotional programs like lighters. pre-pack shippers, mystery shopper, telemarketing 3161 F and

metal tins.
. Direct Mail: Two direct mail offerings were made in 1998. The ‘Rooftop' offer in April was exclusive to the

expansion markets while the ‘multi-sensory’ offer of August covered all the test markets.
. HORECA Bar promotions

Research Obieciives

The primary focus of this study is to measure the impact of the Lucky Strike Advertising and Promotional programs
on Awareness, Image and Usage of Lucky Strike Filters/Lights among the target group and among a representative
sample of total smokers. Specific Research Objectives are to measure:

1. Awareness:
. Unaided Trademark. Advertising. Direct mail, and Promotion Awareness for Lucky Strike trademark

- Aided Brand and Advertising Awareness for Lucky Strike Filters, Lucky Strike Lights and Lucky Strike
trademark
- Source of Advertising Awareness

2. Product and User image of Lucky Strike Filters and Lucky Strike Lights
3. Usage: MOB, ORB, Total Purchase. Free Trials, and Aided Trials
Method

The study was conducted in two-waves — April and October 1998. Telephone interviews were conducted in both the
original and expansion markets among two groups of smokers:

- a representative sample of total smokers who were recruited via random dialing of households; and
. a targeted sample of Male 21-30 year old Full Revenue, non-menthol, non-ultra, and non-slims smokers.

l:\SHAR.ED\mh_thlxilip\Spu;ial Module Summariesls wavclvlhc 1

318036427
PRODUCED FROM B&W WﬁB S T*:

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mr. J. O.

 

April 27, 1972

Watson

Re: WINSTON BRAND GROUP AND MRD SALES PROMOTION PLANNING MEETING

To recap our meeting of Monday, April 17, 1972, here is a summary
of the topics covered:

1. Change in Marketing Objectives of WINSTON Promotions -
Primarily due to the high level of smoker trial, WINSTON

already enjoys (about 70% of all smokers), "attainment of
competitive trial" has now been given secondary status.

In its place as primary objectives are now:

a.

b.

Achieve visibility for the Brand at point—of-sale, and

Reinforce the Brand's major selling points to consumers
at point-of-sale. In addition,

"Reward current smokers of WINSTON" remains a primary
promotion objective.

2. Review of Current Promotions -

a.

b.

.y
04‘

Hi-Lo Baseball Sweepstakes Promotion Evaluation Report -?
(MRD # 71—0221). The report on this promotion

has been released.

WINSTON Menthol 50¢ Coupon Direct Mail Test SMRD #71- -04762 vfg/

The research currently being completed on this offer
appears to be sufficient: redemption analysis, sales

analysis, and consumer follow—up to determine competitive
trial and demographic composition.

"Real—Rich-Cool" Negro Sweepstakes gMRD # 72-02302 {J/

The research currently under way appears sufficient: /V(
redemption analysis and an estimate of the multiple
entry rate.

There was some discussion on the need for research into
why "scaled down" promotions which are aimed at specific
market segments seem to attract fewer participants with
a higher cost per entry. Several alternatives were
suggested: '

i. Ballot testing
ii. Focus group sessions
iii. Experimental techniques for identifying

which one — of several - alternative
sweepstakes smokers would prefer to
enter.

0'
O
p.-
U
N
O
b
U!
N

 

   
  
   
 
 
    
  
 
     
 
 
   
  
    
    
 
   

IBIOVITRO - EIDETE

' Protein Denaturazation Test

     

  

 

Under the designation “Biovitro”, tests_were carried out in which tobacco smoke : y

and tobacco smoke fractions or individual smoke components were reacted with biochemically
ractive materials (for example, ferments, protein).

'"‘¢' In the year 1938, hondoni (1) formulated the hypothesis that peotern denaturization:
and carcinggenisis are interdependent processes.; In the following years, different
CreSearchers held the n View that carcinogenisis included small strdctural changes or T
ddrastic denaturization of biologically active macromolemles. (2,3,4,5,6). That

'tannic acid, phenol and thiourea denaturize protein has long been known, (7). In in-
“'dependent tests it was later shown that these substances lead to liver and skin tumors,

*:Argus et a1. (9) recently reported on this theme. As model substances, they used
z:1lbuminnI,jwhose reaction with water soluble carcinogens - lihe nixrosamines —7
was studied; 1

7This publication (6) was the starting point for our own studies. Since the methods
Vused by the authors‘ftughidometry, viscosimetry, and measurement or optical activity)
seemed too insensitive, we used p-chlormercuribenzoates which react specifically with
the 4 SH - groups. This reaction can be followed by UV spectrometry (10).

~ 2. Princigle

( ,

ﬁég albumin reacts at pH 7.0 with p—chlormercuribenzoate:

Nagéxe'ﬂﬁs: -~

Protein-I—SH + C1. Hg. Ph -—-——4> Protein-—S-—-Hg. Ph
- H01

 

The 3 or 4 - SH - groups react slowly, probably due to steric hindence (11).

If the solution of albumin is mixed with smoke, the reaction is hastened. It isﬂvi
. o

._.' ,x‘y;h,:,;/; ., ‘ . y Y . w“ .1 »,E '4 . .-:__.fs‘,l.,~1,- ; ,7 . he i ‘. w hm ' 15,,

650337775
PRODUCED FROM B&W WﬁB S Tﬁ

 

 

 

 

 

 

v-
in, “Mn- a!

TITLE OF RESEARCH PROJECT:

 

THE COMBINED ROLE OF TOBACCO SMOKE CONDENSATES2 AVITAMINOSIS AND
ALCOHOL IN THE ETIOLOGI OF ORAL CANCER

INTRODUCTION:

 

During the past twelve years I, as well as many of my colleagues, have observed
that a large percentage of patients afflicted with oral cancer illicited histories
of excessive tobacco smoking, concomitant abuse of alcoholic beverages and diets
deficient in essential protein and vitamins. It is theoretically possible that the
dietary deficiency could condition the oral tissues or be a predisposing factor en-
abling the carcinogen present in the tobacco condensate to induce the development
of a cancerous process. The role of alcohol may be that of a synergistic direct
irritant, or indirectly by its action on the liver to effect degenerative changes
leading to cirrhosis; thus impairing an important immune center of the body.

Experimently, it is the purpose of this project to induce in laboratory animals

(white mice) cancer of the oral tissues by combining the factors, tobacco condensates,

alcohol, and dietary deficiencies.

EXPERIMENTAL PROCEDURE:

 

Six groups of white mice, each group to consist of ten mice will be subjected to
variations of tobacco application, alcohol and diet. A control group will be in—
cluded. The tobacco condensate will be diluted in 50% acetone and will be painted

on the oral mucosa four times weekly. The alcohol will be placed in the drinking
water of the animals and changed completely four times weekly. A 10% solution of
a standard brand of whiskey will be used. The diets, when deficient, will be re~
striated in Vit. “A", "B“ complex and "C".

ANIMAL GROUPS:

 

Group I The oral mucosa will be painted on the same site with the tobacco condensate.

Alcohol will be added to the water. The diet will be deficient in Vitamins

“All, "BI! and “CH.

 

 

 

PRODUCT QUALITY EROJECT # 5-34

 

wonmc Pnnrvi IV ‘_

 

BY: __ﬂanney/Johnson

DATE: 5/80

1 ££291£E/9222££221£1: Variation in 6-13 content of cigarettes due to poor
control of G‘l3 entering final blend and subsequent incomplete mixing.

11 Priority: A

‘11 BESQEESQQEQ.AE£12£5 Expedite installation of conveyor scales for control of
amount of G-l3 added to Part II of the blend; improve mixing after 6-13 and

Part II are combined.

IV ResultS/19£§§£_§5pectedt Improved uniformity of 6-13 content in all cigarettes.

V Estimated Costs:

- Capital Expenditure
- Operating Cost/Year

V1 §£2£2§l§£h§99121ﬂ9r__Elan: In progress; to be completed in 1982.

 

VII Obstacles/Difficulties - Encountered/grpgctfny

VIII Responsibility:

Manufacturing. Engineering

IX Remarks:

5/5/80 Installation of conveyor scales is complete. Acquisition of
Hauni "cooler/blender for testing is in progress.

0—-o———.—.m. I x
W

,/

69E6 26009

April 27, 1972

Individual
Copies To: Messrs. J. F3~Bind177/
, T. E. Sandefur, Jr.

SUBJECT: WARNING STATEMENT

TIMING.

Inasmuch as the new SALEM newspaper campaign is breaking about
May 15 with the Warning Statement, it is desirable for all of

I W. -
our brands using_newspaper_to_al§9.293in_u§ing_the_Warning
Statement aBout the same time. This does not mean that we

should scrap existing material or go into overtime in order

to accomplish this objective.‘ However, any new units . -
currently being prepared for use in newspaper should include

the Warning Statement.

The timing for the appearance of the Warning Statement in
magazines and out—of-home media is shown on the attached sheet.
.The scheduling was agreed to by the Brands as the earliest
practical date for use of the Warning Statement in these media.

These timing instructions do not superSede the instructions
you have received earlier giving you the final date of
compliance, but they are intended to coordinate all brands'
scheduling so that the Warning Statement will begin to appear
about the same time in all our brand advertising.

Please advise if you have questions regarding this timing.

CHECKING PROCEDURE

ghe_BIand_Groups‘andﬁthe*%geggi§§_have the primary responsibility
of i'wm-Miwtiwmhemcessarx Warning
Statementpand—the—ELand_N_LegendL. The Agencies have been provided
with the necessary information for compliance and are taking steps
internally to insure that all material will have the necessary
Warning and T and N Legend. It will be necessary, however, for

the Brands to continue to oversee the Agency on these matters.

, , /

 

 

ooze cezos‘

 

 

- - .. .{u'IuW'o‘
.

4 -

PACKAGE ERQTEQTIQN QQBK ELAN

INNER-LINER I

.. QBJEQIIVE: TO EVALUATE PRODUCT PROTECTION OFFERED BY TUO DESIGNS FOR \\

SEALABLE INNER-LINER.

PACKAGE DESIGNS; A) FIN SEALED POUCHES CONTAINING 20 PRODUCTS
B) LAP SEALED POUCHES CONTAINING 20 PRODUCTS

FIN SEALED POUCHES HILL CONSIST OF MATERIALS CUT TO THESE DIMENSIONS:
4 INCHES WIDE. 10 INCHES LONG, SEALS ON BOTH SIDES AND TOP 1/2 INCH

ON SENTRY SEALER SET (9 300 F). LAP SEALED POUCH DIMENSIONS AND DESIGN
UILL BE THE SAME AS FOR OVERURAP.

(OUTSIDE->->-> INSIDE)
MATERIALS: FIN SEALS (A): I) PD-5224 OPP/UHITE LDPE/FOIL/LDPE
PD-SZZS PET/UHITE LDPE/FOIL/SURLYN
3) PD-4SB7 OPP/FOIL/OPP

LAP SEALS (B): I) PD-4BSS HEAT SEAL/FOIL/GLASSINE/LDPE/FDIL
2) PD—SIZS HEAT SEAL/FOIL/GLASSINE
3) PD-4SG7 OPP/FOIL/OPP

PRODUCT: SHELF LIFE 3)) (EQUILIBRATED TO 75/40 CONDITIONS)

ELLVIBONMENTS: 75/40 (CONTROL), 98/90, 98/20
JEEUNﬁfﬁﬂimuii

0 TIME: PRODUCTS ANALYZED FOR MOISTURE (X3)
TOTAL UTPM, NIC, 8—3 DELIVERY (FIVE PRODUCTS IN FOIL POUCH X3:

50/30 SMOKING CONDITIONS, IS PUFFS)
INITIAL UEIGHT RECORDED

SEAL INTEGRITY TESTED

MATERIAL CHARACTERISTIC RECORDED (GAUGE, FLAT MVTR, COF)
UEEK l-UEEK 5: MONITOR UEIGHT GAIN/LOSS ONLY

UEEK 6: UEIGHT GAIN/LOSS, OPEN ONE POUCH AND ANALYZE PRODUCTS FOR MOISTURE
(X2), AND TOTAL DELIVERY (FIVE PRODUCTS ONLY)

MONTH 3: HEIGHT GAIN/LOSS, OPEN ONE POUCH AND ANALYZE PRODUCTS FOR MOISTURE
(X2), AND TOTAL DELIVERY (FIVE PRODUCTS ONLY)

OMONTH B: HEIGHT GAIN/LOSS, OPEN ONE POUCH AND ANALYZE PRODUCTS FOR MOISTURE
(X2), AND TOTAL DELIVERY (FIVE PRODUCTS ONLY)

*DISCONTINUE STUDY AT 8 MONTHS (STUDY MAY BE DISCONTINUED AT POINT PRODUCTS
BECOME UNACCEPABLE)

LSZZ $2905

7‘ TIE NICDTINE'S WHAT MAKES 'Lu snake:

By M. K. Collins

An 1n—depth look at the primary ingredient that -
affects your business.

The stimulation from nicotine in tobacco is the main reason that 60 million Americans smoke

Numerous other chemicals are present in tobacco smoke, and it is the interrelationship of 3
these constituents that provides the total pleasure derived from smoking. nut nicotine is

component which provides the physiological stimulation that makes a person a compulsive
smo er.

Ezrﬁuncllcily, the Surgeon General's report on tobacco and health gave nicotine a. clean hill
0 ea t .

Tobacco manufacturers regulate the level of nicotine in their products very closely. Costs
of tobacco going into a product and nicotine level of the final product rccciVe top attc: i
as cigarettes are made. Over a period of time the percentage of nicotine in products may

vary, but abrupt changes are avoided. Usually it takes a 157: to 2071 change for a signifi-

cant part of the public to detect it. Nevertheless, it's taboo within the industry to rake
unnecessary changes.

 

The nicotine level in most best selling cigarettes is currently somewhere between 1.52 and 2%.
Some cigarettes are available with much less nicotine, with 28% of the market in 1977
considered low nicotine. igh-nicotine cigarettes also fail to attract and keep many smokers.

The lack of nicotine in so-called no—nicctine cigarettes has surely played a major role in
the downfall of these products.

There's a definite correlation between the level of nicotine in tobacco and its aroma or
pleasing qualities during combustion. Low~nicotine tobaccos usually are weak flavored.
nigh—nicotine tobaccos are too strong for most Amoric-n smokers. When our forefathers c.
to this country they found the lndians smoking high—nicotine (about 10%) tobaccos. The
tubaccos were simply too strong for our people.

 

"Blending" is the main method used by manufacturers to regulate the desired nicotine level
in tobacco products. The basic blend of our cigarettes is composed of four classes of
tobacco, each of which has distinct properties. in 1976 :he average percentage of each
class of tobacco used in cigarettes was: fluc~curcd, 46%, Eurloy, 34%; Maryland, 1%;
and imported, 18%. -

Nicotine contributed by the flue—cured portion of the blrnd is controlled by using tobacco
grown in different years, from different production areas of the Belt, and from different
stalk positions. Nicotine content of tobacco grown in different years and production areas
varies conciderdbly, It‘s mainly related to rainfall.

Host of the 60 species of tobacco are very low in nicotine. (We'll define a species as a
group of freely interbreedinn plants.) Nico c- can be artificially produced, but to date
this process has been cost prohibitive ic‘: cot arclal use. however, efforts by private
companies are currently underway to make synthetic cigarettes with nlcntint‘ added.

 

Buying patterns of cospanles are influenced by the levels of nicotine of tobacco in
inventory as well as of what is being purchased. But :5 leaf inventories held by canpanics

576106781

 

 

E’s? (“CW

L FLAVOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM

 

WINSTON King Size
CAHEL Filter
WINSTON lOO

.

I. Chartergobjectives

This program applies to Strategic Issue V (Existing Products

Improvement). Develop/identify viable replacement candidates for
the existing Full Flavor WINSTON and CAMEL brand styles. Product
improvements will be accomplished through fundamental advances in

blending, flavoring, construction, and application of new
technologies.

II. Research Outline
A. Exploratory Research Teams

l. Cigarette Design/Delivery
a. Cigarette Design Technology (Applied)
b. Smoke Formation/Transport (Fundamental)
c. Sensory Evaluation Division (Technical Services)'
d. Marketing Development Department

2. High Nicotine/High Impact Blends
a. Tobacco Blending Division (Applied)
b. Flavor Division (Applied)

c. Process Technology (Brand R&D)

d. Sensory Evaluation Division (Technical Services)
e. Marketing Development Department

3. New/Modified Processed Tobaccos
a. Process Technology (Brand R&D)
b. Process Development (Process Technology & Development)
c. Advanced Process Technology (Process Technology &
Development)

. Toxicology Research (Biochemical/Biobehavioral)

. Leaf Technology (Brand R&D)

. Sensory Evaluation Division (Technical Services)

. Marketing Development Department

0‘1me

U1
0
03
U1
N
H
xi
(.0
e

 

 

March 26, 1984

COMMENTS OF THE TOBACCO INSTITUTE ON THE POLICY ANALYSIS
BOOK ON "ECONOMIC COSTS” OF SMOKING

As a self-admitted antismoking document, the book is
unimpressive. Apparently it is intended by its initiator
and financial sponsor, Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, as a

marketing tool for its stop-smoking gum, Nicorette.

It will be interesting to see the rebuttals to its thesis
by others in the antismoking movement who claim the excess
cost argument has no merit because smokers' lives are shorter

and their health care expenses are actually no greater.

We will sit out this argument, though we must wonder why the
authors fail to examine the costs nonsmokers must obviously
incur over their lifetimes as a basis for comparison. Obviously,
not smoking does not guarantee either a disease-free life

or immortality. Nonsmokers have the same chronic illnesses

which are discussed in the book, and many smokers never develon‘

them.

Overall, we are not impressed with the book.

Ln
(.V
l:
’J a
L;

 

H KE:1?)J(,OL)‘
3-0,? ”'1 I782.

Hvaaf-Jo» ii My?

bﬁV-err-c‘ Fay s,f¢ V191
AWN lit;

Critique Of Busbee Application

The staff, 0*. Brennan and I met Dr. Busbee during
the meeting of the CTR in June 1982 where he presented

his data.

In principle, the work is concerned with the transport
of aromatic hydrocarbons (H3) carcinogen by serum
components. In addition, the importance of binding

of lipofilic carcinogens by lipoproteins and their
uptake is being explored. It was therefore logical for
Dr. Busbee to suggest a correlation between LP and the
action of carcinogens. Not 0 logical is his invocation
of carcinogen- ~initiated hypoplastic growth of cells and
human atherosclerosis. In this connection he quotes
(in reference 7) Benditt, who has demonstrated the
tumor-like growth of smooth muscle cells, but who never

mentioned any connection with lipofilic carcinogens.
This connection is most tenuous.

It is also natural for Dr. Busbee to invoke the work of
Goldstein on LDL receptors.

He attempts to demonstrate the close connection between

transport of carcinogen (PAH) by lipoproteinsy and the
initiation of DNA synthesis in treated cells.

TECHNIQUE:

The lipoprdtein preparation is quite interesting because
he uses a method which he claims is new and more simple
than others and that is the TSK-ZSO column which originated

in Japan. I have no experience with this column, since

most people use differential ultra-centrifugation or heparin-
manganese methods. The binding of LDL with benzopyrene

which is labeled is investigated. A further Step, of course,
is the binding of carcinogens to cellular components. He
uses human lymphocytes in this connection.

The last step is an investigation of carcinogen binding of
lymphocytes to DNA, and the incorporation of tritiated
thimidin into lymphocytes.

In principle, therefore, the investigation consists in
isolation of low density lipoprotein, demonstration of binding
of the carcinogen and the effect of this binding complex to
the uptake and effect on DNA synthesis in the cell.

 

 

APT SUPPORTING PROCESSES ‘§%€§% FEE

WEEKLY STATUS f“ r: Fig D ..
JUNE 29 - JULY 3’ £§,;.{Ej IE"

§H§§EBAEE DEEELQEMEEE; ’ ~*”““*~
GRACE: A technical meeting is scheduled for this Thursday,

July 9, with Mr. Joe Porinchak. The primary topics of

discussion are:

1. Results of RJRT's physical and performance analysis
of recent samples. These results will be used to
plan future technical development direction.

2. Determine a schedule for future development.

3. Discuss results with flow agents and plan a
development schedule for obtaining production
quantities of Syloid with larger particle size.

An extended test run on the Bosch capsule filling
machine started this morning, 7/6. The test run is using
Grace D2 substrate, with the Tox. II load. Grace Syloid 63
FF is applied, by hand at 0.6% by weight, as a flow agent
just before actual use. The material was loaded in Shed 112.

ALCOA: The material produced by Alcoa at Fuller, early in
June, was received at Lawrence Transfer, late last week. A
total of nine drums were received, equalling a little less
than 3,100 lbs. This material will be brought to 602-4 early
this week and drum samples will be submitted for complete
physical analysis.

KAISER: A technical meeting was held at Kaiser's facility in
Baton Rouge, on June 30. The discussion resulted in the
following development schedule:

ITEM KAISER RJR
COMPLETION FEEDBACK

1. Matrix Three Screening 7/21 7 8/25
2. Computer Program Matrix 9/5 10/23
3. Manufacture Feed/500 lb. test 9/3
4. 500 lb. Sintering via Magneco 9/22 10/13
5. Manufacture Feed/10,000 lb. test 11/13
6. 10,000 lb. Sintering via Magneco 11/24 12/26
7. RJRT Receives 10,000 lb, 12/5 1/5
8. Full Qualification . 1/5’"'

6520 20935

page 1

 

 

O
REASON FOR NOMINATION: 90
(SPECIFICALLY describe why youcnominee(s) deserve the award you are recommending.) .. A

| BEUEVE THIS PERSON (OR TEAM) SHOULD BE CONSIDERED FOR THE AWARD BECAUSE:
INTRODUCTION

Fibrous glass has been perceived by some as potentially of toxicological significance. Product prototypes of XDU
utilize a special form of fibrous glass in their manufacture. To assure that no significant amount of fibrous glass can
be transferred to the XDU mainstream smoke. scientists in the Toxicology Division and the Regulatory and Scientific
Affairs Division established a program to measure mainstream fibrous glass transfer. The implementation of this

program by Mr. Jerry Avalos, Mr. Keith Shreve and Mr. Guy Spence is the basis for their consideration as recipients
of the 'China Breaker Award':

THE PROGRAM

The program to measure the ﬁber transfer in mainstream XDU smoke requires many steps. The principal steps
include:

1) identifying and preparing standards of fibrous glass to be used in assessing the efficiency of transfer in each
phase of the smoke collection effort. 2) identifying and implementing an appropriate smoke collection system
compatible with the endpoints to be measured and 3) identifying and utilizing a quantitative technique for counting

the ﬁbers that may be transferred in the smoke. Each of these principal steps is comprised of many smaller, but
signiﬁcant efforts as well.

At the time of program initiation. a timeline was agreed upon that was based on management's best scientific
understanding of the problem and the need for a rapid response. Jerry, Keith and Guy understood that they would
be under significant pressure to meet the goals of the program from day-one, and were, of course, willing to give

their best efforts. Everything was outlined and work could proceed as planned. This is when the story becomes
interesting. ‘

WHY A 'CHINA BREAKER AWARD'

Jerry. Keith and Guy knew from conversation with management that the earlier the program could be completed the
better for the Company in a number of areas. Rather than just conduct the study as outlined. they discussed the
program among themselves and identified several alternative approaches that just might be faster. less expensive.
and less labor-intensive. They chose an alternative approach and went to work to demonstrate its potential.

Rather than employing scanning electron microscopy to visualize and count the fibers that may be collected in the

fiber transfer studies, they chose to use polarized light microscopy with an Interface to a video tape recorder and
television monitor. This approach was validated by the team and proved to be very advantageous.

The advantages include:

1) The elimination of sample preparation for scanning electron microscopy. an effort that required about an hour per
sample;

2) A reduction of time for sample quantitation from four hours to 20 minutes per sample;

3) The elimination of a major dependency on sophisticated instrumentation (SEM) with a high demand for utilization
on many high priority company programs;

4) Eliminated subsequent project interruptions for those other programs within the Company that depend on the
availability of scanning electron microscopy;

5) A reduction in labor necessary to provide the data of interest:

6) A permanent record could be developed to demonstrate the quantification process for each sample on video tape.

0985 ZL‘DIS

 

 

WEEKLY HIGHLIGHTS JUNE 24 - 28, 1991
AMES TESTING
Cindy Fulp and Sarah Bess

STATUS: Ten samples were tested for Melanie Stevenson (Growth/Improvement of Existing Business
222). These samples were identified as follows: (a) Heritage Full Flavor; (b) Heritage Light 85; (c)
Pyramid Full Flavor; ((1) Pyramid Light 85; (9) Best Value 85; (f) Best Value Light 85; (g) Winston King Full
Flavor; (h) Winston Light 85; (i) FL-911198A; and (i) FL-9111988. The purpose of this experiment is to
establish a data base of subgeneric products made with and without cellulose in sheet material.
SIGNIFICANCE: Samples were statistically compared on a revertant/mg TAR basis as follows: (1) all full
flavor products were compared; (2) all Light products were compared; and (3) the FL-911198 prototypes
were compared. No statistical differences were detected.

CONTACT: Cindy Fulp (ext 4332)

STATUS: Five samples were tested for Steve Sohn (New Materials Development 504). All of the products
in this experiment were made in a Full Flavor Non-Menthol configuration using a generic base blend of
G—298. The differences were in the type of G7 in the base blend. The G7 materials used were as follows:
(a) Control G7—1; (b) G7-4 TPD-429; (c) Regular G7-10; and (d) G7-25 [91-073A]. A current Camel Filter
85 product was also tested. The purpose of this experiment is to establish a data base for heat treating
G7 extract and adding DAP.

SIGNIFICANCE: No statistical differences were detected among these samples.

CONTACT: Cindy Fulp (ext 4332)

STATUS: Four samples were tested for Tom Perfetti (X8 113). The products in this experiment were
described as follows: (a) Winston King Size (WKS) blend containing 25% G7-1 with the Tobacco Based
Flavor 440725 applied; (b) WKS blend containing 25% G7-1 with TBF 440725-1 and levulinic acid applied;
(0) WKS blend containing 25% G7-1 with TBF 447327—1 applied; and (d) WKS blend containing 25% G7-1
with TBF 447327-1 and levulinic acid applied.

SIGNIFICANCE: No statistical differences were detected among these samples.

CONTACT: Cindy Fulp (ext 4332)

STATUS: Six samples were tested for Patricia Martin and Art Milhous (XA 112). These samples were
identified as follows: (a) Mainstream and Sidestream particulate from XA prototype CT2286E prepared
with an Ecusta T05504 low sidestream outer wrap, and a Kimberly-Clark P-2540-195 inner wrap; (b)
Mainstream and Sidestream particulate from a market Marlboro Light 85; and (c) Mainstream and
Sidestream particulate from a market Camel Light 85.

SIGNIFICANCE: No statistical differences were detected among the mainstream or among the
sidestream samples with strain TA98. However, with TA100 the CT2286E MS prototype was statistically
higher than the Camel Light MS; and, the CT2286E SS prototype was statistically higher than both the
Marlboro Light SS and the Camel Light SS.

CONTACT: Cindy Fulp (ext 4332)

 

ALKUA |chuurltn 43o .' . ._'-,. .._- uu rm. ;._ __~JO'J':.;2 7

JUL 13 '89 1.313]. LECI EtL‘F‘HETT P_.;

/

oooUvUV . I 4

>—

CIGARE'I‘I‘E AD SHOWDOWN SET

by Chinta Strausberg

Denying charges that she was forced to cancel a recent meeting she
chairs that was scheduled to hear testimony on a bill banning
outdoor cigarette ads‘ Ald. Sheneather Butler (27) has set a
"showdown" session where top public relations guns say they will
be waiting to proverbially ambush her resolution and send it

scurrying into the sunset.

After waiting for 90 minutes for the alderman, several tobacco
executives and lobbyists, who had flown in from Washington, D.c.
and Springfield, left the meeting room but vowed to attend her
June 14, 10 a.m. Health Committee meeting where pro-smoking forces
will verbally sword fight over community complaints that Black
neighborhoods have allegedly been flooded with billboard ads
depicting smoking as "OK," seductive, cool, according to Butler.

Should the aldermen muster up the needed 26 City Council votes for
passage, the controversial bill would ban outdoor cigarette ad
signs and rolling papers which is often used for smoking

marijuana.

But such heavyhitters as Jack Kraft, chief financial officer of
Leo Burnett Company, Stephen R. Shinn, from Gannett Outdoor of

Chicago, and Ellen Venable, executive director of the Chicago
Advertising Club, who were poised to testify last week, told the

ghigagg_pefender they are more concerned about censorship by the
singling out of outdoor cigarette ads which is how they make their

living and that of their clients.

Promising an all-out war against this alleged censorship, Kraft
asked, "Have you ever heard of a little bit of censorship?" He
and the others feel that the First Amendment would be violated
should this bill pass.

While sensitive to the issues of youth smoking and the possible
rippling effect that sometimes leads to drug use, Kraft said the

singling out of cigarettes is "wrong" and perhaps
unconstitutional. "What do we do next target sugar for banning?"

Shinn said zeroing in on cigarette advertisement is "unwarranted"
with Venable arguing that the problem is not with billboard ads
but rather the lack of enforcement of minors being allowed to
purchase cigarettes.

Shinn said the tobacco industry spends about $600 million a year
for advertisement mostly in newspapers and magazines and only two
percent on billboards.

TIILBC 011042

 

  

7/8/87

Filter 8 Tobacco Paper Flavo 8118-5" 0(501 Gone)"

 

+
' “yam/A ~- --

Firmenich Coffee Flavor 8502—41-1—0-9/ 8.68
Firmenich Tobacco Flavor F-{ v' 2.78
Hertz 8 Selck Black Tobacco 836.610/' 20.47
Hertz & Selck Burley Flavor t34.480~ 8.80

«Hertz 8 Selck Latikia Flavor_2_3_,_§_4_3_6."t 4.60
P. Robertet Chocolate Flavor RJR 0-l69/’ 4.67
Propylene Glycol (RJR 8-9) ' 50.00

100.00

Procedure and Rate of Application , --—

Polypropylene Filter Ueb (PP)

-—-—-—_--_-_—__—..—_————---—-—

3118-5 (50% Cone.) flavor is added to 8

-3 at a rate of .2 one.

I.

per 100 gns. 8-3. The 8-3 containing flavor is sprayed on the poly

web at a level of 2.0%.

Tobacco Paper Plug

V. K2C03 is applied to the tobacco paper at a rate of 1.8% using
a dip and drying method. 8-3 containing 0.2% of 8118-5 flavor conc.

(S02) is applied at a 2.0% level.

*KV/W V . g /" M’fWA/L'v

W do f 7/30/F7 W -""“" /5 A”.
0J4 M/(A. 73.6L77PJ’, 7/3'/,7 I

+ CM.“ A; use H [4" 373%)“. 7

D.C. (Bud) CreppS‘

MW g

 
 

e, awe/die

3508 61.509

 

~\ 1;"

 
 

-'- .L m

1992 KOOL KMDP WORK PLAN

(3 The 1992 KMDP Program is designed to maintain the proper KMDP
focus and to defend against heavy competitive activity.

a. To achieve this, we will develop and implement operational plans
that include:

- Tactical Price Discounting

.. Pﬁwﬂy mar-kc? Supper}
- Nationally Coordinated Retail Promotions

- Point-Of—Sale Support Materials
@ prior-3+ New kc}
@ P'izo: 9551M” 'OBJECTIVE

Maintain KMDP focus in key markets to reestablish KOOL as a
dominant brand at retail.

Provide value added tape-ens, BlGlF, discounting and impactful
permanent/temporary point-of-sale materials.

Respond to competitive full revenue price discounting through
tactical VPR sticker pricing programs. -

PROMOTION SPECIFICS

,u .
v“ wiH Con+mua I
In KMDP Assignments, KOOL should have ie—fuii—months—oi support.
KMDP marketsasheuid participate in the following nationai

promotions.asrweit—as—tocattysdtreeeeé—pxomotians—tacextand—reashw
12Q2 KQOL KMDP PROMQTION CALENDAR

lST QUARTER 2ND QUARTER 3RD QUARTER 4TH QUARTER
VPR Stickers VPR Stickers VPR Stickers VPR Stickers
Display/ Display/ Display/ Display/
Plus-Outs Plus—Outs Plus-Outs Plus-Outs
Tape-Ons Tape-Ons
Tnpc- Ons‘ T“P"'°"$*
B1G1F (wave A) BlGlF (wave B)

* Times; \<MD P @5513 "Who-v}: “3AA“. Priorﬂ'y Mtrkt‘h! Skoqhk—
Con*uc* ~+kczr n~~ﬂn5cr1 4¥r spec:{:t dtdr‘iS "ﬁ"4t“9
prior:4'7 mufk¢+ prOMO‘I-Zon;

671409092

PRODUCED FROM B&W WEB SITE 671409092

4 . A ,7, y , V L . , \J __ ”,N, ._,___,..iv,,,v,i~,
4 I I 1),...4/ m," . V , M.u«_.._“ AMIIJLA _, .

DH IX

CIGARETTE SMOKE FILTRATION

AND EVALUATION OF FILTERS

The measurement of two basic parameters is required to
evaluate a candidate filter for nonselective filtration
properties of the smoke aerosol. The accepted means of
measuring these two parameters is discussed below, and
some representative data pertaining to commercial and
experimental cigarette filters are discussed.

Pressure drop is that quantity obtained when the pressure
differential between two points is determined. In the
case of cigarette filters, it is the pressure difference
between the two ends of the filter at a normal air flow
of 17.5 cc./sec. at 750F. and 1 atmosphere. The pressure
difference is usually expressed in centimeters or inches
of water. Most filter tips in use fall within the range
of 2.0-12.0 cm. of H20. .
Efficiency of a cigarette filter is a measure of the"
fraction of smoke retained by the filter. If we use

the notation S to represent the smoke presented to

the filter, and S1 the smoke passing the filter, the'
efficiency (Ef) may be expressed as

51 may be measured by smoking cigarettes under standard
conditions (35 cc puff, 2—sccond duration, 1-minute frequency,
at 75°F and 60% relative humidity) and obtaining the dry TPM
yield according to the procedure employed by the FTC. $2 is
measured on cigarettes smoked to the same butt length as for 51
but with the filter material removed from the tip.

TITX 0032153

ISSUE BRIEF
WED.

ISM

Since the energy crisis in the 1970’s, there has been a trend toward constructing
buildings with totally controlled indoor environments. These ”tight" buildings, designed
to reduce energy costs, often expose occupants to poor indoor air quality, resulting in
what is known as "sick building syndrome." Occupants’ complaints of eye irritation,
headaches, fatigue, sore throats and nausea may suggest problems in the design,
operation, or maintenance of a building's ventilation or air handling system. Tobacco
smoke, because it is the only visible pollutant, has often been targeted as the major or
sole source of the problem.

While tobacco smoke is often blamed as the cause of indoor air quality problems, in
almost all cases, it is a symptom, not a cause. The National Institute for Occupational
Safety and Health (NIOSH) and private investigators have concluded that environmental
tobacco smoke (E'IS) is a cause of discomfort by building occupants in only 2 to 4
percent of cases investigated. And even those cases, experts say, can be solved with
improved ventilation.

Serious health threats may exist from pollution sources such as ofﬁce machine and
furnishing contaminants, chemicals from photocopiers, and sulfur dioxide ﬁom buildings’
heating systems. Furthermore, the lack of maintenance of ventilation systems allows
microbes, insects, fungi and bacteria to accumulate within the systems and circulate
throughout the building.

w

Indoor air quality legislation has three components. Simpliﬁed, they are ventilation
standards, indoor air quality studies and indoor air quality standards. The ﬁrst indoor
air quality legislation to be considered required buildings to provide proper ventilation,
often by meeting generally accepted industry standards for ventilation as set by the
American Society of Health, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE).
In November of 1989, ASHRAE revised its standard, increasing its ventilation standard
for ofﬁce buildings -- a three-to-four fold increase in fresh air requirements from the
1981 standard of 5 cubic feet per minute (cfm) per person. The old standard set two
separate ventilation rates, one for smoking areas (20 cfm) and one for nonsmoking areas
(5 cfm); the revised standard has one ventilation rate for both smoking and nonsmoking

areas (a minimum of 15 cfrn).

Today, legislation has moved beyond merely removing the only visible indoor pollutant.
Many legislatures are interested in the wide range of serious indoor pollutants and
several have established Task Forces to study the sources of pollution as well as
promulgating rules to improve indoor environments.

Tl1291-1987

May 9, 1958

A SUMH.RY 0F Th3 QUAHTllhTIYE CHANCES WHICH OCCUR L///
IN SOME OF THE CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL CONST1TUENTS
0F HOBACCO DCRlKC lHE NATURAL AGING PROCLSS

SAMPLING;

 

 

For a period of seven years, tobacco samples representative of each crop
year were taken to study the quantitative changes which occur in some of
the chemical and biological constituents of tobacco during the natural

Both flue-cured and burley tobaccos were taken from the

aging process.
Specific markets were

major growing regions from 1952 through 1958.
selected which were widely separated and considered to be representative
of the major bulk of flue—cured and burley-tobaccos purchased by the
Company. Samples for the aging project were taken from these same

markets each year. The belts and markets which were selected were

(1) GEORGIA ~ Blackshear Market, (2) SOUTH CAROLINA ~ Mullins Market,

(3) EASTERN CAROLINA ~ Kinston Market, (4) OLD BELT ~ Winston-Salem Market
(5) TENNESSEE — Greeneville Market, and (6) KENIUCKY ~ Bloomfield Market.
Samples representative of both lug and leaf types of tobacco were included

as sampling variables.
A practical core sampling procedure was developed to provide subs.mples
from experimental hogshcads for laboratory analyses. It was shown that
the core sampling procedure used in this work yielded representative and
rpprndncihlp samples. Samnles for both chemical and microbiological
"‘“"~* "or" tel-“ coin“ cessatiun_, the same procedure' tbe only

an~-.L).a\;v \.~.-a.~.- .-. .~..~,
‘
" used for

difference being that a cempletcly sterile coring apparatus was
taking the samples for microbiological analyses. Tobacco core samples
were also used for the purpose of making cigarettes for subsequent smoking
The apparatus used for taking the core
a sharp

'9“ now'nh “00'3““; 2‘1 1‘.

tests during the aging study.
samples was an electric power drill and a hollow auger fitted with

cutting edge.

ROUTINE CHEHICAL‘ANxLYSFS:
Nww ---—-- u— .1 ~—o-o.-—.f.—-wo.—-~ .--'v.-<

A quantitative evaluation of total alzaloids, nicotine, total nitrogen,

ef moisture, and pH (slurry) in aging tobacco was
After redrying, the hogshead
Subsamples

potassium, chloride, 10
made for six crop years (l953~1953).
samples were placed in warehouse storage for natural aging.

were taken at periodic intervals, during the natural aging recess, and

analyzed for total a.kaloids, nicotine, total nitrogen, potassium,

chloride, leaf moisture, and pH (slurry).

It was found that the net changes which occur in these constituents of

{IUC“CHICd and burlcy tobacco, after two years of natural aging, are
..1I.-'..'.I. 0--_.-....
“Luv .uluu’ al.;\.$-l.1A.\..,

churaclvrized by signiiicant net decreases in total
and pH (slurry), (see Trblcs I and II). On the average, there are no
signiiicant net changes in total nitrogen, pctessium, or chloride.
Significant changes other than not changes also occur in total alkaloids,
nicotine, total nitr03cn, and ph (slurry) duri
in flue~curcd and burlcy tobaccos.

e

V

n; the natural Aging process

 

L ﬁ'rl. QGIOS

 

 

   

March 25, 1953

Monthly Report

 

Flavoring Laboratory ' ‘ ' ‘g

March 1953

1. No. 7660 - Flue cured blend (Camel)
2. ‘ NO. 766K '-

Burley blend uncased (Camel)

Burley blend cased (Camel)
A. No.766P.Ar Burley leaf blend uncased (Prince Albert)

 

Chemical analysis of the tobacco and burning time of the control 337:
cigarettes are shown below:

z % Total pH of

. Burning Time Burning Time )
Nicotine Sugar tobacco Ave.Secs/Cigt. Secs./gm. tab. ;
No. 7660 2.11 14.55 5.40 1603 1303
No. 766K 1.93 --- 6.38 770 921- g“
"“ No. 766KC 1.89 6.57 6.55 992 931 i
_ No. 766P-Ao 3038 ”-- 5098 1138 "1113
Chemical analysis of the smoke has been made by the Analytical
Div1sion and reported in a separate report.

. . 50379 052/3 ~

 

{/20/5‘5

6&6

POSTER 1011 : ABSTRACT

HISTOPATHOLOGICAL EXAMINATIONS WERE CONDUCTED ON ALL
RESPIRATORY TRACT ORGANS OF ALL ANIMALS, USING H&E AND'
PERIODIC ACID SCHIPF ALCIAN BLUE STAINS. ALL ‘OTHER
MAJOR TISSUES WERE EXAMINED FOR HIGH DOSE AND CONTROL
GROUPS. ALL SLIDES WERE READ WITHOUT KNOWLEDGE 0F

TREATMENT GROUP.

RESPONSES OBTAINED IN THE REFERENCE (TOBACCO BURNED)

GROUPS WERE SIMILAR TO PUBLISHED OBSERVATIONS. IN THE
TEST CIGARETTE (TOBACCO NOT BURNED) GROUPS THE FOLLOW-
ING RESPONSES WERE EITHER ABSENT, OR WERE PRESENT WITH
SUBSTANTIAL DECREASES IN BOTH SEVERITY AND INCIDENCE,
WHEN COMPARED WITH THE REFERENCE GROUPS 2 EPITHELIAL

INFLAMMATION, HYPERPLASIA AND SOUAMOUS METAPLASIA
(NASAL I, LARYNX), GOBLET CELL HYPERTROPHY (NASAL I),

GOBLET CELL CHANGE (BRONCHI-AND BRONCHIOLES), PULMONARY

CONGESTION, AND AN INCREASE IN INTRA-ALVEOLAR MACRO-
PHAGES. ATROPHY OF THE OLFACTORY EPITHELIUM IN NASAL

II WAS NOTED IN THE HIGH DOSE REFERENCE GROUPS.

WITH THE EXCEPTION OF THE NASAL I AND LARYNGEAL
RESPONSES IN THE REFERENCE CIGARETTE, ALL OF THE
LESIONS INDUCED WERE ABSENT AT THE END OF A 6-WEEK

RECOVERY PERIOD.

 

 

 

05/02/94 10:53 819107254902 Vi. KLEIN 8: ASSOC— --- PUBLIC RELATIONS 21003/004

FACT CARD:
Good Arguments Against The Government's Proposed Smoking Ban

_Our federal government is pushing two proposals that would ban smoking almost everywhere

w
_ :a‘ThO first threat is HR 3434, the sweeping new bill proposed by Congressman Henry . we”
.J..&axman. it would ban smoking in virtually all indoor public places —— plus some outdoor _
.onesl " " __________.. “'17

he second threat comes from OSHA —- the Occupational Safety and Health P6.)
Administration. These upstaged bureaucrats want to outlaw smoking in nearly all workplaces

nationwide.
Here are some strong arguments against these government bans. Feel free to make these
points (in your own words) when you write to Congress.

   
 
 

- Secondhand smoke isn't the issue. Earlier this year, the Environmental Protection
Agency classiﬁed secondhand smoke as a Class A carcinogen. But this ﬁnding has drawn
cntlclsm from prominent scientists. The Congressional Research Senrloe has called the
EPA's report into question. And the report is being challenged in court. OSHA should base
its regulations on sound science —- no; political science.

. The current system works. Across America, employers. building managers. and local

elected officials have designed smoking policies that work. Smoking and nonsmoking
sections are the norm in most areas. And according to polls. two-thirds of Americans

ﬁnd this arrangement acceptable. So there's no need for the federal government to
iurther regulate this issue.

. The proposed regulations colonial. in some cases. the proposed rules would
Invade the privacy oi the home. it you pay someone to work inside your home, M

W

- This is lust another attempt at backdoor Prohibition. These government proposals
represent the anti-smokers latest campaign to erase smoking from American culture.

These politicians have a political agenda, and it has nothing to do with protecting non-
smokers irem secondhand smoke. But it Prohibition is what the anti-smokers want, let

them stand up in Congress" and put Prohibition to a vote. They'll find that the majority
of Americans do gm want a return to Prohibition!

Other Steps You Can Take To Stop Government Smoking Bans:

- Write a letter to the editor of your local newspaper. Use the points above to argue
against the proposed smoking bans. Keep your letter short (about 250 words). For the
address where you should send your letter. see your newspaper's editorial page.

- Tell a triend about the proposed bane. Ft..l. Reynolds is telling as many smokers as
possible abcut the government's proposed smoking bans. But your friends might not hear

L®8I Z‘DIIS

 

 

 

1— The National Restaurant Association has testified against
the OSHA smoking ban. The N. R. A. study shows a projected annual
loss of $18.2 billion in restaurant revenues if smoking is banned
nationwide. This dramatic loss in sales would mean decreased jobs
and government revenue as well. In light of all that, what is
wrong with restaurants simply establishing their own policies,
either allowing smoking or not, but making their own decision on
the issue?

2— Gaming facilities on Indian reservations are a growing
source of competition for America' s gaming industry. National and
state legislative and regulatory restrictions do not, however,
apply to Indian reservations. So efforts such as the statewide ban
you supported in California will put the gaming industry at a
distinct competitive disadvantage. How can you in good conscience
support government policies which will ban smoking at commercial
facilities while it is still allowed on Indian lands?

3- There has been a lot of talk that a national smoking ban
would create a "level playing field" in which no restaurant enjoys
an advantage over any other, since none could allow smoking. Yet
that is based on the faulty assumption that things are "level" in
the first place. The truth is that some restaurants rely more
heavily on business from smokers than do others. Why is it
necessary to force diverse businesses to use a single, identical,
one—size—fits- all policy?

4- It seems clear that most Americans want less interference
from government. Yet, the California Restaurant Association is
advocating greater governmental interference, in this case in the
form of a smoking ban. Once you' ve opened the door to greater
government control, isn't it awfully naive to think you can keep
government out of other areas?

5- The free market has already provided an answer to this
issue: In most communities, some restaurants are smoke-free, some
are not. Customers have a choice.

What is wrong with that? Why shouldn‘t restaurant owners and
managers be allowed to set their own policies, and allow smoking,
even as they are currently free to ban it? If allowing smoking is
risky, for one reason or another, why shouldn't owners and managers
be allowed to choose to accept that risk?

 

 

3.... 1‘)

CONFIDENTIAL

AuThor: C. T. Tansfield QSRR—A, l980, No. 3
BioanalyTical SecTion

SepTember 23, I980

To: Mr. J. A. Giles
Manager, AnalyTical Research Period Covered: July l, I980
Through SepTember 30, I980
Re: QUARTERLY SECTION RESEARCH REPORT

No. of Pages: 6

l. CIGARETTE BEETLE CONTROL. ProjecT 7l3l (Personnel: Bellin, HuTchens,
Brooks)

o

Due To a mild winTer and an unusually long hoT summer, cigareTTe beeTle
counTs for The season have been excessively high. A ToTal of 4,475,800

beeTles has been Trapped To daTe. This is The largesT number of insecTs
Trapped since The summer of l976, a season which required a large number

of fumigaTions following a mild winTer. ForTy—Tour shed fumigaTions have
been compleTed This quarTer. TwenTy-Two of These have been aT Davie CounTy
sTorage. This is 85% of The Davie sheds which conTain Tobacco. Rapid
buildup of insecT populaTions has necesslTaTed TumigaTing in Two locaTions

aT The same Time. This is The TirsT Time in The hisTory CT The insecT
conTrol program ThaT This has been necessary.

The insecTicidal fogging schedule aT Davie has been increased To six

nighTs each week. All oTher locaTions are being fogged every oTher nighT
(Three Times each week).

A sample of each DDVP mix has been analyzed by Mr. David Heavner.
ConcenTraTions of DDVP in The mixes ranged from 9.5%-l3.3%. The correcT
concenTraTion is 9.3%. The meTer-which measures kerosene was found To be

in error and has been replaced wiTh a new one. Analysis of The laTesT mix,
using The new meTer has noT been compleTed.

CounTs from facTory Traps are up To daTe. The increased number of
beeTles in The Traps from The receiving areas indicaTes ThaT insecTs are
being broughT inTo The TacTories from The high infesTaTions in The sheds.
This could lead To higher cusTomer complainTs due To insecTs.

ApplicaTion of KabaT R To Tobacco aT The Brook Cove sTemmery has been
compleTed. A ToTal of 93.5 gallons of KabaT R was used To TreaT 3,3l8,|92
pounds of sTems (9.24 ppm) and 95.5 gallons used To TreaT 3,232,223 pounds
of sTrips (9.69 ppm). The calculaTed raTe of applicaTion was l0 ppm. The
cosT of The chemical To TreaT This Tobacco was $22,680.

The sTems are sTored in cardboard boxes and The leaf in poly—wrapped
Tersa bales. The Tobacco is sTored in Shed 435 aT Brook Cove. The shed is
noT being fogged nor will iT be fumigaTed. lnsecT counTs will be moniTored

'closely and TemperaTure and humidiTy measuremenTs Taken weekly during The
TesT period. The insecT counT in The shed To daTe is 4,263.

\

thg LZEOS

 

MONTHLY STATE
CIGARET TAX REPORT

» TOBACCO TAX COUNCIL
5407 Patterson Avenue
Richmond, Virginia 23226

 

REPORT FOR OCTOBER 1972

In the month of October 1972 cigaret taxes in the 50 states and
the District of Columbia were imposed on 2,189,952,000 packages. This,
was an increase of 5.7% in the volume of cigarets taxed during the
month of October 1971 when the package count was 2,071,707,000.

Forty jurisdictions showed increases and 11 showed decreases
when the October 1972 package count was compared with October 1971.

Cumulative figures on the volume of cigarets taxed for the four
month period July 1972 through October 1972 were up 2.5% from the
corresponding months a year ago. The four month total for the current
fiscal year was 8,851,028,000 packages as against 8,631,236,000 packages
for the corresponding period a year ago.

Thirty-eight jurisdictions experienced increases and 13 experienced
decreases in the volume of cigarets taxed during the four month period

of the current fiscal year as against the corresponding period of the
previous year.

The aggregate of the cigaret taxes for October 1972 in the 51
jurisdictions was $263,872,814. ’

12/12/72

TIMS 0009990

Minority l! r-:‘.rur_t

.,,__ um.“ lll’I l/J:

Addendum to the Second Report of the Independent Scientific Committee
rm. 5?;

_ wiggling; l“.- lletllth, dates] ngrunry‘ZSth, 1979

 

While Agreeing Iully with much of the substance in the Second
Report I find myself in disagreement on several important details.

(l) __U_r;mncy

9T7L€ 92619

The Committee has spent 5 years evaluating tobacco substitutes

. and additives. it could initially at't'ord to postpone consideration of tar
' yields because these were falling steadily up till 1973. This is no longer

the case, as the fi urcs in ara ra h 3 and ii are 1 demonstrate;
B P E! P 3

so it is

 

'now a matter of urgency to see that this {all begins again at a rate

which
will rapidly brin

g cigarette yields to low levels. ,

During the early stages in its work the Committee could do little

about Carbon Monoxide yields because few figures for thes; were then
available. Figures for all the major brands have now been produced by
the Laboratory of the Government Ch

cmist so it. is imperative to establish

sales—weighted averages and ensure that these begin to improve without delay.
/

(Sec paragraph 4). >

There is very good evidence that well over 50, 000 people in Britain

dber 1.970- Wald 1978), and that some

65 years of age (Royal College of Physicians 197?).
This {act alone argues that improvements in cigarette tax

~ at the greatest possible speed.

die annually from smoking tobacco (Go

25, 000 of these are under

 

i sit)" must proceed

The majority report does not seem to reflect the sense of urgency

which the above considerations give me.

 

_..-a_ - . -

a J 01.9 TOBACCO 1m 1'
mm $111M!

gmxmc AND mm mm;

 

 

ammo -souzr ARDFALLACI'
W

ECT 3:
what we want to convey can almost be smarized in one sentence:

The smoking and health controversy is just that - it is a controversy.

MIME AND GENERAL FORMAT or THE §§§§ION 0N sumac AND HEALTH
The smoking and health controversy is a very i-portant question;

our Industry has been - and is, of course, trying to provide the
answer. If there ever should be any component or components, as
found in smoke, that can be proven to be. or contribute to be,a
cause of any disease in man, we will of course, take them out.

He will have three presentations on the topic of smoking and
health. I will first discuss the scientific and medical aspects of

‘ the smoking and health controversy; then Dr. Senkus, who for many

years has been Director of Research of. this Company, and who has

recently been promoted to Director of Scientific Affairs, will
ordain how the U. s. tobacco industry, and especially this Company,

have responded tectmologically and in the marketplace to the effects

of this controversy.
Then Hz. Ed Jacob will review some of the worldwide political

and legal aspects of this controversy, but, because of his experi-
ence, he will, of course, discuss mainly the United States.

0'37. LZOOS

m—l-UWA“

._. Java"... - - . . ..

.s.r-—-...

R E T A I N E 0 8'0 L U E N T S

0 How does the preliminary specification of .50 mp. toluene/0P8 and 1.48 mg.

total solvent/0P8 effect SPA products? Is this specification feasible to
produce?

RESUL15:
' Retained solvent levels in Alpha CPB's:

Eullﬁcini mam; 2m.
WWW

lsopropyl Acetate 1.88 .71 —-
Isopropyl Alcohol 1.05 .52 --
n-Propyl Acetate .85 .29 ’-
Toluene .25 .08 .50
TOTAL . ' 4.02 1.50 1.48

(CPB's at four days aging: analysis by Archer R 8 D)

Ink formulations for SPA crush-proof boxes is given in Attachment 1. These
formulations have been reviewed by toxicology and are acceptable.

QQNQLQELQNSL
' Both one-third and full printed boxes meet toluene specifications.

9 The one-third printed box is close to spec on total solvents, and can be
produced at current specifications.

! The full printed box is out of spec on total solvents, but probability is
high that levels can be reduced by the use of the vacuum chamber and/or aqueous
top lacquer. Archer R L D will conduct trials to determine effectiveness of

these methods in reducing total solvents in the full printed box by mid-
October. .

0 Future specifications will be based on total solvent levels.

‘926 9959s

 

 

gLy/lMT/VLDOC/

INHALATION TOXICOLOGY OF GLYCEROL

6.4.3.4.2 General methods a for 14-day Glycerol Inhalation Study
in Rats Conducted at a Contract Laboratory

6.4.3.4.2.1. Introduction

A 14-day nose-only inhalation study was conducted at Battelle’s
Pacific Northwest Laboratory under contract to the R.J. Reynolds
Tobacco company. The objective of the study was to_investigate
the potential biological effects, if any, of 10 consecutive

workday exposures of glycerol aerosol in rats. In addition, the
study was conducted to provide dose selection information for a

possible subchronic inhalation study of the same material.

6.4.3.4.2.2 Experimental Design

The study included four experimental groups. One group was
exposed only to fresh filtered air and three groups were exposed
to concentrations of glycerol aerosol of 1, 2 or 4 mg/liter;
respectively. Exposures were conducted for 6 hours per day, 5
days per week for ten consecutive workdays. Each exposure group

consisted of 10 male and 10 female rats which were 4 to 5 weeks
old at receipt.

6.4.3.4.2.3 Experimental Animals

The Sprague-Dawley-derived rat was chosen as the test system for
this study because of the historical data base available from
previously conducted inhalation studies and its compatibility
with other endpoints of interest to R.J. Reynolds. In addition,
this strain has a lower incidence of mononuclear cell leukemia
than does the other commonly utilized F-344 rat.

Test subjects were quarantined for 3 weeks and screened for
clinical abnormalities prior to selection for test article

exposure. Complete serology evaluations were conducted twice, at
a two week interval, prior to study start.

6.4.3.4.2.4 Animal Husbandry

Rats were individually housed in hanging, stainless steel wire
mesh cages which were cleaned weekly. Animal care was in
accordance with the Animal Welfare Act of 1970 and amendments
(Public Law 91-579) "Specifications for the Humane handling,
Care, Treatment and Transportation of Warm-blooded Animals other
than Dogs, Cats, Rabbits, Hamsters, Guinea Pigs and Nonhuman
Primates." Room conditions included 12 hours of dark, 12 hours

4029 1L9OS

 

.. 3 -
BEANS FOB l2§9

UT
8
CO
(J0
8
H
U1
0)
RD

DENTIFIC TION O CHE C CO E S
Serve as resident expert in the area of Fourier transform infrared
spectrometry as applied to the analysis of complex mistures and in the area 0
NMR spectrometry. Particular attention if directed toward the hyphenated

technique of gas chromatography/matrix isolation/Fourier transform/IR
spectrometry. Within this same general category , serve as consultant in the

area of solid state IR with particualr attention directed toward IR
microscopy.

ZQFBEON ﬁEPLACEﬂEEI

Continue to explore the applications of micro Gc technologies to the analysis
of volatile materials in process streams.

BQFLAVOE QEIIMIZAIIQE§§EAQ

Further development of the new technique SEC and SFE will be explored.
Attention will be directed toward the production of candidate flavor material
from tobacco and other natural products<SPA). SFC will be used to characteriz
the thermally labile and high molecular weight materials whose presence has
been indicated in tobacco extracts by previous experiments. Attempts will be
made to wed SFE with SC in an integral piece of instrumentation. Conceivably
a unit described by SFE/GC/IR/MS could be developed.

42PAC§AG§NG TECHNOLOGY

Continue to work as coinvestigator into he design and construction of new
instrumentation directed at the determination of the permeation rates of
complex mixtures through barrier materials (films). Conduct experiments
describing the optimun operating parameters. Pursue a patent application in
this area of instrumentation design.

W

Perform specialized analyses as required

6 MP OVE CH IC N S

Continue to serve as coinvestigator into the installation and setup of the ne\
hyphenated technique(GC/IR/MS) for improved responce times for analytical
requests. Compare the advantages and disadvantages of the GC/VPIR with that
of GC/MIIR in the analysis of samples relevent to company needs. Pursue the
publishing of an article describing the results of the investigation.

7 PT
Continue to serve as contac point and cooridinator of all analytical requests
of the division originated from NPT.

8 MPROVE MEASURE T S

Pursue new areas of analytical development targeted directly at the needs of
the company. Areas to include but not be restricted to SFE. SFC.
MTFTIR.MDGC.NMR.etc.

9 PROFES I NA EV O T _

Actively continue professional development via published articles in the peer
reviewed literature and presentations at professional meetings related to the
analysis of complex materials as required fro company projects,

 

CONFIDENTIAL:
MINNESOTA TOBACCO LITIGATION :

ANTI-DISCRIMINATION LEGISLATION/
M
SMOKERS’ RIGHTS LEGISLATION
-——__________

* Revised 6/5/89

 

Bill Description

* Alabama H437 Summiirry: As amended, would restrict smoking in workplaces with
more an 20 employees and other public places -- Would require

nonsmoking areas to be designated -~ Would prohibit hiring
discrimination by government or private employers based on
applicant or employee’s smoking/nonsmoking preferences

Status: Legislature adjourned without further consideration of
the 5111

Arkansas HR1038 Summa 2 Directs House Speaker to appoint citizen committee to
study potential public smoking policy concerns in the state.
including smoker/nonsmoker discrimination

Status: Resolution was adopted 3/13

 

Arkansas H1901 Summa : Would prohibit hiring discrimination based on
employees’ smoking or nonsmoking preference

Status: Bill died upon adjournment

 

Arkansas H1900 Summ : State would have sole responsibility for regulating
smoiﬁﬁzg

Status: Bill died upon adjournment

 

California A2288 Summ : As amended, would make it an unlawful employment
practice ior public or private employers to discriminate
against an employee or applicant because of the person‘s
assertion of the right to smoke or the right to a smoke-free
workplace

Status: Original bill that only protected nonsmokers was
amended in Assembly Labor Committee 5/10 -- Bill was reported
to Ways & Means Committee

 

* Delaware 5210 ~ (This bill replaces SS. S67 and S95)
Summa : Would prohibit discrimination against smokers by an
employer

Status: Bill has been reported from Human Resources Committee

-- Bl" expected to be scheduled for ﬂoor consideration 6/6 or
6/7

TIMN 0015111

    
 
   
   
   

nrmmanmunnr0aunuunmwunuunmgmgunaﬂmﬁﬂﬂﬁﬁaluﬂﬁmbdiniii

*Following this agree/disagree statement, there will be an open—end question

'what age do you think the VANTAGE smoker is.‘ The interviewer
will probe using various age levels that range in increments of five years.

that asks

USER ATTRIBUTES

 

Independent
Self-confident
Willing to take risks

Lives for today, not tomorrow
Plans for the future

18 alot older than me*

Is part of the "In" group

15 someone l'd like to be like
Leader

Doesn't always follow the crowd
Exciting to be with

13 fake/phoney

Respected by h1.s friends
Lives life to the limit

My idea of masculine
Thinks before acts

Could be one of my friends
Seeks status

Achievement oriented
Wealthy

Resourceful

Adventurous

Enjoys life

Decisive

Works hard to be successful/nchieve goals

PRoggp'r ATTRLIHLES
Satisfying
Real tobacco taste
Light tobacco taste
Smooth
Mild
Strong
Harsh
Easy to draw smoke through filter
Alot of taste relative to its tar level
A brand for tar Conscious smokers
An original low«tar brand
A contemprary brand

Leaves a dry taste in you mouth

SSéL EISUS

 

HOWARD HEWETT

with his current release of I commit To Love, Howard
Hewett, the former lead singer of Shalamar, has fulfilled
a lifetime desire. He candidly commented, “Doing a solo
(album) has been a goal of mine for a long, long time.
Shalamar's last tour (with me) received reviews calling it
the 'Howard Hewett Show' and now, it is.“

Hewett joined Shalamar in 1979 and led the group
through a string of hit albums including: Big Fun, Three
:9; Love, Go For It and Friends. His last project with
Shalamar was H artbreak, which included the hit single
"Dancin' In The Sheets” from the box office smash movie,
Footloose.

A native of Akron, Ohio, Hewett began his career as
part of the Hewett Singers, a gospel group that performed
with the likes of the Staple Singers and the Mighty Clouds
of Joy. However, his wish to expand his musical career
soon led Howard to various R&B bands in his hometown and,
finally, to Shalamar.

Now, as a songwriter and singer, Hewett is embarking
on a new journey in his already illustrious musical career.

# # #

698135342

3380 ERIE AVENUE, CINCINNATI, OHIO 45208, (513) 321-6688

699135342

PRODUC

 

 

 

 

3D FROM B&W WﬁB S Tﬁ

 

 

 

  

#1240 — The Effects of Ahminum Silicate in vivo and in vitro - W.S. Lynn
Duke University.

This proposal is only a part of the vast program under way financed by
various sources including the N.I.E.H.S.

The investigator begins with the thesis that aluminum slicate and organic
contaminants bound to it are an important cause of environmentally—induced
pulmonary injury. He proposes to study aluminum silicate because it is

an ubiquitous pollutant that avidly bind organic contaminants such as
pyrolized hydrocarbons and peroxidized lipids; is presnt in oats, tobacco,
and prepared or processed tobacco products such as cigarettes and many
unwashed agricultural products — grains — cottons — flax, etc..

With CTR support he expcects to study the following questions:

a) What forms of aluminum silicate and what contaminants bound to it
in particles obtained from various sources can be isolated and characterized?

b) Which of these isolated conglomerates injure macrophages, fibroblasts,

and epithelial cells - either killing, producing sublethal inury or depressing
funtion?

c) What are the mechanism of this toxicity?

d) Do these isolated conglomerates alter intracellular communication
between leucocytes, epithelial cells and fibroblasts?

Briefly his study will be coordinated with others at Duke one of which is
concerned with obtaining aluminum silicate from whole tobacco smoke, lungs
from smokers and other sources such as grains with the intent of isolating
and characterizing the aluminum silicate and organic materials bound to it
and compare these materials with the aluminum silicate isolated from other
sources. Another investigator will test the prolonged effects i§_vitro

of the various isolated fractions on macrophages, fibroblasts and epithelial
cells and the third collaborator will do in_vivo.

 

 

I have gone over the who protocol and I am quite sure this group can make

progress in the areas they propose to investigate. However they already

have large sums of money for related studies and will probably pursue these

proposed or related studies anyway. This proposal goes beyond the interests

of the board in the sense that the proposal is a large environmental study .
in which tobacco is only one aspect. The budget is large and I predict

would grow as time goes on year by year since three years probably would

not be sufficient to wrap up the objectives in a way that would delineate

the role of tobacco smoking independent of aluminum silicate inhalation from

sources other than tobacco.
I would deny this by giving it a rating of E
Merit as an environmental project: B

Relevance C—

Leon 0. Jacobson, M.D.

C??y;£4 ﬁg 1(914 . (;%¢444:nnql ££<jkbdzz §;vabrwﬁ17 yé§7y£L¢6; [jg (V4521, (Jae

 

50216661

u orking
tout-[her

Working Together to Work It Out: '0 “wk
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Promotes
Peaceful Coexistence

Why Peaceful Coexistence?

In many public places, a wedge is being driven between smokers and nonsmokers. In
most cases, both groups get along well. But their relationship is often misrepresented,
and the conﬂict blown out of proportion.

In an environment where contention and intolerance prevail, it's unpleasant for both
smokers and nonsmokers. So people stay at home and everyone's business suffers.

The truth is, most people want to work together to achieve a solution. In fact, most adults
believe that smoking restrictions should consider the rights of both sides.

That's why R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. (RJR) launched the Peaceful Coexistence
Program in the spring of 1992. It uses a humorous approach to accomplish the serious
task of building bridges instead of walls.

.How Do You Achieve Peaceful Coexistence?

It's really not as difﬁcult as it may seem. The key to generating peaceful coexistence is
putting the issue in proper perspective, and encouraging smokers and nonsmokers alike to
exercise tolerance, courtesy, common sense, and accommodation. After nearly three
years, the program has been well-received by hospitality owners across the nation.

Why is the Peaceful Coexistence Program successful? Because...

0 A March 1994 Gallup/CNN/U SA Today Poll showed that 86 percent

of Americans oppose prohibition on smoking; and
o more than two-thirds want separate sections, not bans.

o It makes good business sense.

Since Peaceful Coexistence beneﬁts all of your patrons, it clearly beneﬁts you and your
business.

What is RJR Doing To Promote Peaceful Coexistence?

Through a variety of materials and informational brochures, RJR is encouraging smokers
and nonsmokers alike to exercise tolerance, courtesy, common sense and
accommodation. The program combines this message with the promotion of good
ventilation and seeks to create the most hospitable environment possible.

 

 

9961. 6921's

 

The Office Of Technology Assessment memorandum released
today demonstrates how little is known about the relationship of

personal behavior to disease and then, in turn, disease to costs.

Unfortunately, the staff of the OTA had little time to study
this subject adequately.

If the report is supposed to provide a rationale for
legislation earmarking a portion of the federal cigarette excise
tax for Medicare, in our View it fails.

The report itself is littered with clever escape-hatch terms
such as "estimate", "uncertainty", and "may", words normally used
to hedge against legal action, Worse yet, it is based largely on
fifteen to twenty-year-old figures, not statistics, lifted from
fuzzy ”studies" openly sponsored by front rank professional
adversaries of tobacco. Could the desired conclusion have been
determined in advance of the "study”?

Finally, this government bureau takes a position now, only
two weeks before a consumer surtax on some tobacco products will
be ended by law. This is blatant intervention confected and
released by the staff of an agency to support a regressive tax
increase which would cost the poor more than it costs the rich.

Lawmakers and opinion formers should read closely. They will
recognize the specious, admittedly vague nature of this non-study.
It is simply propaganda, a political press release requested by

one member of Congress.

If OTA does this kind of work in the vital defense and

security areas where it advises the Congress, we have a very

serious problem indeed.

CONFIDENTIAL: ” , a» , I . I H
MINNESOTA TOBACCO LITIGATION TIMN 218099

1.

N- ,, , , A, ,,#V “WWII,

 

—‘ 1“ mm'& ' v V V. ,. ,a .3» -.~ :»-—~‘ ‘*

J ' CORESTA 55 AND ETS TASK FORCE :
‘ s‘—'f‘é'"—"‘"mes :2 AH ANAmeAF—‘L pnoceouaes

i P r, “ . ' 7 Summar of main oints from Meetin
' J: -,%‘h‘" 7 on let January 19%

g g: . A
OFY/ Co-ordinator of Task Force: c.R. Green (RJR. USA)
W V" ' , Summary written by: R.R. Baker (BAT. UK)

    
  
 
  

3.; *a l. A literature review on Sidestream Methodology was given by

' ‘_R.H. Jenkins (PM. USA), followed by presentations on specific
amethods by C.J. Proctor (BAT,UK), E.D. John (Rothmans, UK),
C.M. Mattina (Kimberley-Clark, USA), J.H. Bell (Lorillard, USA)

and 0.“. Baker (RJR, USA).

e'p.;"92. in general discussion, it was agreed to define sidestream smoke
' ,as all the smoke generated by a cigarette that is not mainstream

33. it was also agreed to refer to sidestream methods as “analytical
. methods for sidestream smoke determination“ and not to imply in
‘_any way that this is related to ETS.

‘4. It was agreed to define sidestream particulate matter-water-
lrnicotine free (PMWNF) as that collected on a Cambridge pad and
- deposited in the apparatus using the minimum distance between
'the cigarette and pad that would ensure the temperature 1 cm

on the smoke side of the pad was 22 i 2°C.

5. it was decided to do an inter-laboratory comparison of methods. All

Each person wishing to participate in this co-operative study participating
delegates

should write to C.R. Green stating :
(a) his willingness to participate
(b) the number of each type of cigarette he will require

& (c) any information he may have on anenometers or other air
velocity measurement methods (see 9(b) below).

6. The following cigarettes will be used in the co—operative study:

(a) K1R4F (University of Kentucky reference cigarette)
.(b). C-20 (20% ventilated German Verband reference cigarette)
(c) C-50 (50% ventilated German Verband reference cigarette)

(d) UK flue-cured cigarette
(e) Dark air-cured cigarette

(a) [$30 per thousand] can be obtained by writing to:

Ms Bettye Vice, Purchasing Officer,

Purchasing Tobacco and Health Research Institute
Cooper & Alumni Drives
University of Kentucky
Lexington, Ky 40546.

SSZS S2905

(tel: 606 257 2660)

G. Scherer (Verband) will supply (b) and (c) to participants. G. Scherer
R.R. Baker (BAT,UK) will supply (d) R.R. Baker
J.M. Gonzalez (Tabacalera, S.A.,) will supply (e) J.M. Gonzale

(C.R. Green will let G. Scherer, R.R. Baker and J.M. Gonzalez C.R. Green
know who is participating in the co-operative study, and how
many cigarettes each participant requires).

 

 

 

I.

v

' PORA nRY R0 T v

REVISED DESQRIPTIONS
A. §MOKIN5 ENJQYMEET
1- FRESH AFIEBIA§T§ Expggggxggx
A. ﬁEuEgAL DE§§BIPIIQu
DEVELOP A CIGARETTE HHICH HAS A MORE PLEASANT/FRESH
AFTERTASTE THAN ANY NON'MENTHOL CIGARETTE ON THE
MARKET TODAY WHICH CAN ALSO SUPPORT A FRESH BREATH

POSITIONING. IT NEEDS TO BE PERCEIVED AS BEING A

NON'MENTHOL CIGARETTE; YET MUST ADDRESS THOSE
CHARACTERISTICS WHICH CAUSE CIGARETTE AFTERTASTE TO

BE UNPLEASANT-

B- N T A V

TOTAL FFLT NM SMOKERS-

C- [pgNIlFlEn ABELIQAIIQN
O EBQJEQI FB

A CIGARETTE FOR 18- 3H FEMALE FFLT NM SMOKERS WHICH

LEAVES YOUR BREATH FRESH-

OZLS 26535

J

tron: The Second Surgical Clinic or the University of Vienna
Director: Professor Dr. H. Deck Beitrage cur klinischen
chirurgie, Munich, 185:259-384, Nov. 3, 1953.

W
(9‘02! by
H. Bonk

During the last years there have been many papers on lung cancer. it is therefore,

unnecessary to review here consequently this very timely disease. In the following,
we shall discuss a few aspects of the total problqa and report a few observations .

which we have been able to make with the many patients of our Clinic.

lI‘here seems to he no question that the absolute master of bronchial carcinomata
has increased. This can be further proved by a few figures.

Gesell reports from Switzerland that the total mortality i‘mm cancer has almost
doubled (1.8:1) from 1901. to 191.8, while the mortality from lung cancer has in-
creased in the same period 20.? times. In the United States in 1920, 1.1% of
all deaths due to cancer were due to a bronchial‘ carcinoma, while in 191.8 the
figure was already 8.3%.

Ii’he figures for the population of the city of Vienna have been put at our dis-
posal by the Central Statistical Office of the city. Total deaths due to cancer
have increased from 1931 to 1938 (21 city districts) 15.3%}. and from 1939 to
1951 (26 city districts), they have increased by 16.75. The deaths from
carcinoma of the respiratory system in men were 15.8% of all cancer deaths in
1931, 20.6% in 1938, and 31.76% in 1951.

For men and when together, the percentage of deaths from cancer or the respira-
tory system as a percentage of the total mortality from cancer was 8.66% in 1931,
11.92% in 1938, and 17.9% in 1951. The total mortality or the population of the
City of Vienna due to cancer has increased by one sixth during the last twenty
years; the mortality from cancer or the respiratory system has doubled.

In 1931., 1.1.0 people died per each 100,000 inhabitants of the City of Vienna due
to cancer of the respiratory system; for 1939, the figure was 581., and for 1951,
1,011.. These figures likewise prove that there was a much greater increase in
deaths due to lung cancer when referred to the total mortality due t.» cancer.

These conclusions, however, are somewhat limited by the fact that the mortality
statistics do not give as clear a picture as s morbidity statistic, which does
not assist in Austria. It is certain that presently a greater mmber of other
carcinomata than those of the lung are cured, and those naturally are not in-
cluded in a nortality statistic for cancer. This argument against the mortality
statistics nevertheless, does not alter. the fact of the absolute increase. How-
ever, we shall not discuss these theories in detail. Here we shall discuss only
the streets of cigarette smoldng on bronchial carcinoma, since these relations
Sign? great timeliness. He shall discuss this on the basis of patients in our
c.
/
1. \

9502 98205

 

 

 

FIELD MARKETING MANAGER MEDIA GUIDELINES

when contacted by a reporter, field marketing managers
should forward calls to the public relations staff. You

should also contact your RJR Marketing contact.

If reporter insists that he/she needs to talk with a local
RJR representative, field marketing manager should respond

that his/her responsibility is field marketing support, not
media relations. PR staff in Winston—Salem will support

field marketing managers by emphasizing to reporter that
managers are not prepared to represent the company's view
on all issues.

If approached by a television crew, field marketing manager
should stop all sampling procedures. Do not cause an
uproar —- simply cease all sampling activities quietly.

All other events should continue as scheduled, with age
verification particularly stringent.

Be aware that some news crews or photographers will "plant"
underage children near the activity, appearing as if they
are waiting to participate. The field marketing manager is
responsible for politely moving along such clearly underage
people.

It is preferable for announcements of RJR donations,
sponsorships, etc., to be made by the recipient
organization on their letterhead. However, before an
organization sends out a news release on an RJR
contribution, sponsorship or other involvement, the field
marketing manager must send that release to Public
Relations for approval bgfgre it is released. The same
applies to any photos/captions being provided to the media.

22699

16bL

Draft - 1/25/91

P ~— I

Advertising has evolved through the centuries from a simple tool of commerce
to a vital and visible part of our culture. From handbills to television to
blimps. advertisements reflect the concerns, interests, contemporary trends
and desires of our society.

Advertising benefits both buyers and sellers »— in a word. everyone.
Advertising supports our free and independent press. Advertising brings us
sports and entertainment in person. on radio and on TV. Advertising helps us
make informed consumer choices and stimulates the market competition that
leads to more product choices, better quality and lower prices.

But today. advertising is under attack. According to public opinion polls.
much of the general public has come to regard advertising as a nuisance at
best. and as a deceptive persuader at worst. Critics have accused advertising
of encouraging or even causing a long list of social ills —- from high
cholesterol to alcohol abuse to urban crime. As a result of these
accusations, some -- even some public officials -- have called for drastic
restriction of the right to advertise.

Mike Roarty -— executive vice president for corporate marketing at
Anheuser-Busch —- described the situation in a speech last year to the

American Advertising Federation. Here's a lengthy but insightful excerpt from
Mike‘s remarks:

*kl‘ﬁi

"Advertising under Attack"
Excerpts from remarks by Mike Roarty to
rhe American Advertising Federation

Advertising is under attack and our very freedom to advertise is threatened.
Social critics of both the left and the right have focused on advertising as
the cause of a never-ending list of national ills.

Their all-purpose prescription for society's problems is a simple one: Just
get rid of those ads! And lest any of you become complacent. let me emphasize
that we're not talking here just about beer advertising -- we're talking about

all advertising. 3;; advertising is under the gun, and your product or your
client may well be next.

Consider a few recent news stories:

o In Finland, a court banned a McDonald's ad showing a youngster who is
upset over moving. but who smiles when he spots a McDonald's near his

new home. The court found the ad deceptive, saying it suggests that
Big Macs can replace friends.

_ 1 _

 

9869 SLLQS

 

1992 SECOND 'QUARTER REPORT

Timothy B. Nestor .nuy8,]992

1. Evaluate the effects of air flow and oxygen concentration on
ignition propensity.
/."
a. Develop an enclosure and evaluate effects of air
flow. (2Q)

Due to a change in priorities, work, involving the
"Localized Air Flow" apparatuéhwas delayed until late
June. Currently, cigarettes G and J are being used to
determine the appropriaha levels of Kf on California
standard fabric. Once the fabrics have been chosen, an r
experiment will be conducted using air flows of 0, 2.5,
5.0, 10.0 cm/sec.

b. Complete evaluation of 02 effects at constant flow
rate and flow effects at constant 02 on "Flow-
Through" method with selected TSG cigarettes. (20)

The objective of this study was to determine whether the
"Flow-Through" method could discriminate between selected

, "remake" TSG cigarettes. Cigarettes 506 (BELN—21), 529
(FELC-25), 525 (FNLC425), and 528 (FNHN-25) were selected
for testing. These cigarettes represent a wide range of
ignition propensities as reported by the TSG.

Ignition test results of cigarettes 506, 529, 525, and
528 on UFAC type II fabric at various air flow rates are
shown in Table I. Ten replicates were run at each point
and are represented by a percent ignition in the table
(i.e. #/10). A_ well—defined differentiation between
cigarettes was rum: observed. ' This can be seen in
Figure I, a plot of percent ignitions versus air flow
rate for all cigarettes. A formal analysis of variance
has not been performed on the data; however, one could
generalize that the cigarettes performed similarly at low
flow rates, and cigarettes 525 and 528 produced more
ignitions then 506 and 529 at the higher flow rates.

The results do not indicate a wide range of ignition
propensities as reported by the TSG. Because of this,
work involving various<k percent has been postponed.

@86L LSZIS

/
'.

mm ' 662!

tion is projected to decline 3.9% in
following a 4.5% drop in 1989.

a 2% annual rate between 1984 and

, retail price increases averaged

the overall inflation rate.

is expect to reach 4.5% for the
is attributed to escalating retail
versus 1988) resulting
manufacturers’ price increases and higher state cig
taxes.

For 1990, indus
cigarettes.

Longer term, the decline in industry consumption is estimated
at 4.0% due to higher retail prices, health concerns,
pressures and restrictions on smoking opportunities.

81?! BILOS

 

Company TAN enrollment total in all states

July 1, 1983

Brown & Williamson Tobacco Company
TAN Enrollment Status Report

 

Increase/decrease in company enrollment

from previous month

Company percentage of TAN manufacturing

segment enrollment

Company percentage of total TAN enrollment

 

Fluctuation in enrollment data can be caused by:

u
I
n
o
0

new enrollment

undeliverable mail

enrollees moving between states

change of coding for terminated employees
change of cooing for retired employees

address updates for previous undeliverable
mail

1,117

+17(+1.5

9.0
1.3

TIM800026715

%)

%

07
/a

CONTROL AND MIXIMIZATION OF TOBACCO SMOKE
DOSE IN CHRONIC ANIMAL STUDIES

Why do we need inhalation studies with whole tobacco smoke,
and what can we hope to accomplish with them? A stated purpose
of the tobacco and health program is to develop a less hazardous
cigarette (Reference l). The major risks associated with tobacco smoke
are cancer, notably respiratory tract cancer, chronic respiratory
disease(s), and cardiovascular disease(s). While the toxicity and
the harmful effects of individual tobacco smoke components can be
assessed in bioassay systems not involving inhalation exposure,
the full pathogenic potency of as complex a mixture as tobacco
smoke ultimately must be determined by inhalation studies with whole
smoke. This presentation focuses on some crucial problems related
to dosimetry and maximization of smoke exposure in tobacco smoke
inhalation studies. we will limit our discussion to efforts aimed
at the improvement and development of bioassays for testing the
chronic toxicity and carcinogenicity of whole tobacco smoke in small
laboratory rodents using passive smoke inhalation techniques.

Methods to Estimate Sustained Dose

Before discussing how to control and maximize the dose of
tobacco smoke delivered to experimental animals, we need to take
stock briefly of the major methods currently used to measure sus-
tained dose and to suggest possible new approaches. It is important
to remember that we will be measuring tobacco smoke components
only, rather than whole tobacco smoke, but hopefully such measure-
ments will be indicative of a class of compounds or a significant
fraction of tobacco smoke. Currently, two main options are avail—
able for measuring or estimating tobacco smoke dose, with perhaps
a third one to be added in the future. The first is to measure
normally occurring tobacco smoke constituents (or their derivatives)
in the body or body fluids of exposed animals. The simplest and
most common example of this approach is determination of COHb. The
second principal approach, developed more recently, is to label
tobacco with chemical or radioactive tracers, then determine the
amount of tracer in the respiratory tract of.the exposed animals.
This method is much more complicated than the former and requires
that one have some knowledge of the fate of the tracer during
pyrolysis, its distribution in the tobacco smoke, its volatility,
etc. Typical examples of this approach are studies with decachloro—
biphenyl (2), 14C hexadecane (3), and 14C—dotriacontane (4,5). The
advantage of this method is that one can measure dose to the lung
directly (though it may be debatable what fraction of tobacco smoke
the measured quantity represents). The disadvantage is that (at
least with the markers currently in use) a destructive test'is re-
quired to determine the amount of tracer in the lungs. A third .
possible alternative is to use depletion of smoke components from
the exposure chamber as a measure of uptake or dose to the animals.
(This approach, if feasible, probably will apply only to static,

rather than dynamic exposure conditions.)

.E 600 29 I 09

..___‘

_..._.

—..._..

1.»..— ‘

 

 

n...

- "rm-v v

. WI mum-I Lm 1,223“. J

:1»: ‘

CURRENTHACTIONRBTANDARD

 

Af” q, Hr,ﬂ,,,- —:*L W _ - ‘ . . ' 55“
SHORT TERM ' " ‘ I‘

SIGNIFICANT IMPROVEMENT ON KEY ATTRIBUTES WITH NO SIGNIFICANT DECLINE IN

OVERALL RATING VERSUS CURRENT PRODUCT AMONG COMPETITIVE FF FILTER 85MM"~“—
NON-MENTHOL SMOKERS, 25+. NO SIGNIFICANT DECLINE ON KEY ATTRIBUTES OR
OVERALL RATING VERSUS CURRENT PRODUCT AMONG FRANCHISE SMOKERS, 18+.

LONG TERM

SUPERIORITY VERSUS RICHLAND F 85 ON KEY ATTRIBUTES AND OVERALL RATING
AMONG COMPETITIVE FF 85MM NON-MENTHOL SMOKERS, 25+. PARITY VERSUS
RICHLAND F 85 ON KEY ATTRIBUTES AND OVERALL RATING AMONG FRANCHISE

SMOKERS, 18+.

PRODUCT TEST RESULTS - WAVE III - 86-31115

25+ FFNM 85 18+ FRANCHISE
CENTURY 85 50.2 54.4
DIRECTIONAL
DIFFERENCE
RICHLAND 85 D 51.4 * ‘ 47.9 *
STRENGTHS KEARNESS STRENGTH WEAKNESS
SMOOTHER STRENGTH ELESS HARSH
HARD TO DRAW LESS BITTER
LESS TOBACCO TASTE LESS ARTIFICIAL
TASTE

* BASED ONWEALF-SAMPLE,READ H:,, ”,1,”

£9LS LSSOS

 

TOBACCO ACCESS LAW NEWS
NUMBER 27 ' DECEMBER 1994

Now that states are beginning to seriously consider how to enforce their youth access
laws, they need to be able to project the personnel and budgets this will require. Although
I recommend that communities plan to conduct compliance checks on a quarterly basis,
this recommendation is based on the limited data we have available and is really no more
than an educated guess. For example, it is possible that as compliance testing becomes
commonplace and corporations adopt their own policies and training programs, less

frequent testing may be adequate. It is also possible that larger ﬁnes may reduce the
required frequency of testing. ‘

In other words, there is much that remains unknown about how these laws can be
best enforced, and there will be a critical need for this information in the very near future.
While compliance testing is underway in a variety of locations, the data from this
experience is not being collected and analyzed to make it helpful to others.

I am seeking funding from the Centers for Disease Control to use the Tobacco
Access Law News network to identify enforcement programs throughout the US, and to
collect and analyze the data available from these programs so that effective state
enforcement programs can be designed.

The grant reviewers seek more speciﬁc information about what enforcement
programs are currently underway. I am therefore asking each of my US and Canadian
readers who receive this wonderful newsletter free to complete the form on the last page
of this newsletter and mail it back to me as soon as possible. Thank you for your help.

AUSTRALIA

NEW SOUTH WALES- The current law requires children to testify and provides a
defence that the child looked old enough. Prosecutions have ben rare. Public Health
Units have received a total of 327 complaints to which they responded with 271 warning
letters. Due to public pressure the government hired a police prosecutor for a one year
contract to do prosecutions. Still, prosecutions have been few. In response to a letter
from Dr Chesterﬁeld-Evans, Health Minister Phillips wrote that "prosecutions are not
always seen as the most appropriate manner to ensure that retailers are aware of the
legislation and comply with its requirements Research has indicated that a high level of
compliance is achieved through the use of alternative methods to prosecutions such as
warning letters and retailer education...it is my view that prosecutions should be seen as
an act of last resort.“ For the record, the research does not indicate what he claims it

III? @6815

Research Degartmenl’.

mlomx'bm September 2, l97l

NEW IMPACT STANDARDS /715 [77%

A ncv series of impact standards has been developed and recently reported
by lions, Southamptonﬂ). Alchaugh the Southampton approach was expected
to be an improvement over the Chemical standards, we felt that BéM's needs
would still not be met by these new standards. Consequently, we have been
pursuing the development of our own series. Preliminary results are quite
encouraging.

This memo covers my comments or. the Southampton Renart and the status of
our developmental work.

 

06R

 

A Cement on mm: Re 0 t R

Jeremy Wood's report contains several points of immediate imporLance in
view of on—going WOODROSE activities and current RM) projects.

1. The new series of nine impact standards are designed to give more
precise deteminatians than the previous standards, covering the
same impact sensation range (0 to 4 is now 1 to 9)4

2‘ The tilter cigarettes are available from Ram: and wood makes the
recommendation that the nev standards be used by all panels using
WODDROSE.

3. Very casually in pa ng, Wood makes the commenr_that impact "should
be based on the whole cigarette and not merely on the first few putts."
This is news Lt: me.

 

The new series is based on the relationship between extractable nicotine
delivery and impact. The desired levels of impact sensation are produced
by blends of two flue—cured tobaccns, widely dlifering in nicotine content,
in proportions to yield theoretical nicotine deliveries, which give just
noticeable dittcrsnces (y.n.d.) in impact. calculations for the tobacco
blend formulations are based on the theory that the difference between two
stimuli is what is important in determining j.n.d. and nor. absolute values,

The impact standards, identified as IMP/l, IMP/2...Im/9, were evaluated
by "b nd” panel testing. Ten members scored, by the old scale, adjacent
pairs rrcm memory, i.e., no standards were used. The panel average re—
sults ranged from 0.55 tor IlT/l to 3.50 for INF/9 with all samples falling
in the "correct" sequen:e. However, for three oi the adjacent pairs,

 

(Dunne, n. 1., law: Report RD.806-R, "in—act Standards - A series of Special
Stendalds tor Assessing impact on lnhaling," June 22, ls7l.

continued r - *

599100120

 

 

/

 

R0 T T -

PR DU T 0? T

o l - + M K s

‘ RESULTS OF FIRST WAVE OF TESTING WERE PRESENTED T0 BRAND AND

R8D- THESE PROTOTYPES (WITH SHORT- TERM TECHNOLOGIES) MET ACTION

STANDARD ON ATTRIBUTE PERFORMANCE, BUT NOT ON OVERALL

§Jo.\\ACCEPTANCE-
HIYFWS

\> \ ” 1) ALL THREE GT PROTOTYPES WERE PERCEIVED TO BE AT LEAST

[frwx COMPARABLE TO MARLBORO LTS- 0N SMOOTHNESS AND TOBACCO TASTE-
1:
l

2) ALL PROTOTYPES HAD LOWER THERMOMETER RATINGS - “9% To 52%
VERSUS MARLBORO'S 58%.

AMONG MARLBORO SMOKERS THE RESULTS WERE SIMILAR-

vyj- SECOND WAVE OF TESTING (INTERMEDIATE TECHNOLOGIES) WAS MAILED
\{gg O7; ; OUT 5/18; RESULTS TO BE PRESENTED wEEK OF 6/29
, ‘0 “v I

 

I FF TASTE AT FF T - 8+ FFNM SM K RS /"

FIRST WAVE 0F TESTING wAs MAILED OUT 5/“; RESULTS TO BE
PRESENTED WEEK OF 6/15-

LLV'TA ~ ‘ ’ﬂ, Le-YCL‘ET‘T V
ur 1"; \v‘ f ’4‘ Y. K , ' (L;\‘ \‘V‘ dh::’T:/d > h 3
\r. W u ”f 4H) \/ } r Y\ (K
'1 .1 ‘— ( k
, ‘ Ju - 0 T 2 »\ , a \0/
N \\ sf} ’ ,,/ (7L9 t "‘i w“ ‘1 \Q(::’ L I Lg UbC)
‘ // , ~L " ‘_ 7
/ l‘ “(L VTGC‘S RV. V T 4
,//’\L l' (<V’ri’ ’ (f ~‘ ’
\K 6*, / 5T
Q,

 

0525 {6905

I

\. ’1

1.

”PE—(Z E wﬂLgH-.

July - September Quarterly Report - Human Studies

Determination of Carboxyhemoglobin (COHb) levels in smokers -

In the urine mutagencity study, COHb levels were
determined for smokers during the puff
profile/blood/breathing studies using an Instrumentation
Laboratories Model #482 Cooximeter. Blood was drawn at
time 0 + 10 min. after lighting for both test and reference
cigarettes. COHb levels were also determined during the
Pharmacokinetic Study for both test & reference brands.
Blood was drawn at time 0, and times 7.5 and 10 min. during
smoking of the 7th cigarette. (See Cheryl Miller's report
for comments on statistics).

Thiocyanate (SCN) Levels in Smokers and Nonsmokers -

Data on serum SCN levels was graphed for each smoking
group as well as the nonsmoking group in the Urine
Mutagenicity Study. Blood was drawn (non-fasting) at four “
different intervals during the study, with the 2nd and 3rd

draw dates unique to each group (Sl's 7/15 and 7/29, 52's sigh

7/29 and 8/12, NS's 7/22 & 8/5). SCN levels were high for
non-smokers initially. Each group had the lowest level on
their 3rd drawing, even though they were on different dates.
The 3rd drawing was during the test smoking period for each
smoking group.

Development of Data Base for Human Studies -

Data Bases were established on the Sun computer for

subject information, pre & post study physical information,
and COHb levels. To date, most of the data has been entered.
Data base for clinical chemistries remains to be developed.

Collection of Data regarding Chemical Exposure -

The seventy-two participants in the Urine Mutagenicity
Study were asked to keep a daily record of exposure to

tobacco products, chemicals, and any medications taken.
Weekly reports were generated from these diaries and provided

to the Genetic Toxicology Group. The reports will be used in
conjunction with Ames tests on 24-hour urine samples obtained
on Days 5 and 7 for each of 6 weeks. As the results of the\

Ames tests come in, the appropriate week's report will be \X
screened for any exposure to potential mutagens. \

Diet, Method of Food Preparation and Mutagenicity -

High temperature cooking of protein foods has been
associated with the formation of mutagenic compounds. (See
E. Overik, et. a1. "High Mutagenic Activity Formed in

Pan—Broiled Pork", Mutation Research, 135 (1984), 149-157 and

 

2258 72905

II.

III.

Summar of enc e orma

A.

B.

C.

D.

0v a a 0 V v

Overall performance was very good through the development of

pool-outs and NOW Heavy-Up Program.

- Poolouts addressed style awareness by disclosing
tar/nicotine for all styles vs. Carlton

- Poolouts lack "attention getting" qualities

Promotion objectives were not adequately addressed.
- Seemed to be slightly modified adaptations of advertising
- Programs were not developed on a proactive basis

Agency began development of Project PI and successfully
completed a national mailing of NOW Video.

Agency developed and implemented advertising to support NOW
LN.

Creative Services

Creative Services were very good and exhibited a thorough
understanding of NOW's communication goals.

Account Management

Exhibited good understanding of the business while providing
strategic input and analysis.

Mssrs. Lipton and Guerin displayed strong commitment and
enthusiasm.

FinancialZAdminisgratixg Services

Improved data reporting and monitoring the correctness of
legal stats.

Su est ns 0 m v

Develop more impactful advertising.

Increase communication with RJRT functional areas.
Develop and forward project status timetable.
Proactive promotion planning.

1990 Objectives
Contribute to BBU's efforts to completely reevaluate marketing

philosophy and programs; recognizing NOW as a niche brand.

Continue to develop poolouts.

Develop effective promotion programs.

Continue Project PI.

Defensive advertising against Saving Segment.

Direct Mail programs that address target (i.e., Carlton,
Concerned Segment).

Ln
A
A
A:
A)
Q
A»
\l
\l

 

 

RJR DIREC MA ETING
POLICIE§£PROCEDURES

List Management

The following outlines the steps taken by RJR to reduce, to the point of elimination. the
likelihood that someone under 18 (the legal age to smoke in virtually all states) will
receive product or promotional items from us through the mail.

0‘ Minimum Age - It is important to rememberthatwe only mailto smokers who are 21
years of age or older. We do not mail to smokers of legal age who are younger than
21, i.e., smokers who are 18-20 years of age. We think this builds in a margin of
safety.

In addition. we attempt to verify the age of 21-24 year old smokers on our list using .
two independent third party sources. We do this quarteriy. The third party Vendors
have established strict matching criteria which ensures the quality of the matches. ~
When a name is matched by an outside source, the smokers record is flagged as
veriﬁed. Those names sent but not matched are ﬂagged as sent. Any smokers
determined by the third party sources to be less than 21, years of age are immediately
removed from our list. Those names conﬁrmed to be over 21 and those who are not
found at all in the independent databases are retained in our database.

0 Smoker Certiﬁcation - We believe that our mailing list only contains smokers Who are
21 years of age or older. We mail these smokers coupons and our own brand

preference screeners. However, we only mail sample product and promotional items. V

to people who have signed a form that certiﬁes:
- They are a smoker.
- They are 21 years of age or older. and,

- They want to receive offers from us.

Our certiﬁcation regimen is the most strict in the tobacco industry. We require a.
smoker to actively insert his or her birth date on the certiﬁcation form. We feel this '
added involvement is another way of making the smoker sensitive to what he or she .
is doing. .

Further, our form points out that giving false information in order to take advantage of
an offer may constitute a crime (mail fraud). We think that most people are honest.
but this reminder provides an additional safeguard.

All screeners. comment cards; MGM's, order forms, and other communication that
ask a smoker to respond include the standard smoker certiﬁcation — certiﬁcation
copy. signature line. and birth date line.

Our system is designed to allow us to quickly retrieve a smokers signed certiﬁcation.
We have a seven year retention policy for smoker certiﬁcations. Typically, we can
retrieve certiﬁcations signed within the past 12 months in 48 hours - no more than 10
working days upon request. Older certiﬁcations may take longer to retrieve - about
three weeks. Routine audits are conduded to test our certiﬁcation storage/retrieval
procedures.

..~:l:um«mi2w:dzxuvriuiuwuamwwuuwnmmedo».,. i.-:w.=..,. . macaw-nun ....a.»..t it.

was... 1‘

., my all-uh].

299$ VSﬂZS

 

ON THE FORMATION OF 4-(HETHYLNITROSAMINO)-4-(3-PYRIDYL)BUTYRIC

ACID IN TOBACCO AND TOBACCO SMOKE

Mirjana X. ﬁiordjevic, Claire W. Sigountos, Klaus D; Brunnemann,

and Dietrich Hoffmann

American Health Foundation
Naylor Dana Institute for Disease Prevention

Valhalla, NY 10595 /~U;S;A.

In order to determine the source of the nicotine—derived

4-(methylnitrosamino)-4—(3-pyridyl$butyric acid (iso-NNAC) in
tobacco smoke, an American blend and one French dark tobacco

nonfilter' cigarette were spiked‘ with‘ nicotine,‘ nornicotine,v

cotinine, and iso-NNAC (10, 1, 2, and 0.1 mg/cig., respective—
lyli Smoke generation, Collection and partition were done ac-
cording to a published method. The analysis of tobacco-specifiC“
nitrosamines- (TSNA3,. nitrosamino acids (NA),, and iso-NNAC in
mainstream smoke (MST was done.by gas chromatography with TEA,
detection.‘ The U.S. blended cigarettes ‘spiked with iso-NNAC

yielded 950~ng/cig- oi iso—NNAC in MS.(0.95% transfer), while,

formation of iso—NNAC‘(2 ng/cig) was observed only in the MS of
cigarettes spiked with cotinine. The latter finding suggets
thatv iso-NNAC lnay' be, pyrosynthesized during’ smoking of ciga—

'rettes,rich»in:cotinine.v Data on iso-NNAC formation ﬁrom cati-
nine in tobacco plants and in vitro will be presented; The posa

sibility of using iso—NNAC_ES a biomarker for the exposure to
TSNA of active and passive smokers will be discussed.

To be presented at the 43rd'Tobacco Chemistsl Résearch Confer&‘

ence, October 2-5, Richmond, VA, U.S.A.

 

SLSL SL809

WEEKLY ACTIVITIES REPORT
WEEK OF: FEBRUARY 24-28, 1986

NAME: Robert J. Graham

 

REGION: Northwest, Region 5 .

LEGISLATIVE SUPPORT ACTIVITY
* Met with Phone bank operators in Seattle to discuss
their involvement in the possible initiative drive in the State
of Washington. Designed program that would "chase” petitions
with key contacts with retrieval of petition as the goal. Also
discussed involvement in the final get‘out-the vote drive.

* separated informal petitions into counties in
preparation for putting names up on the Tobacco Institute's
computer. Names have been gathered for use in the upcoming
Washington State initiative drive.

* Discussed with Bill Buckley the hiring of one high
school student to put names up on the computer for minimum wage.
Project to take place on weekends

* Met with. and discussed the initiative drive with Lou
Hibdon, President of local #126. Bakery,Confectionary and Tobacco
Workers Union. Meeting was held in his office in the Tacoma,
Washington area. Meeting lasted almost four hours. He wants
assistance in forming a coalition of eight unions in return for
an all out involvement on their part. Will sit down with the
entire coalition next week.

‘ Discussed possible avenues relative to filing a law
suit relative to the constitutionality of £553 4519 ( McDermott D
43 Seattle). Possible avenue is to sit down with Ken Eichenberry,
Attorney General of the State of Washington. Any constitutional
challenge will have to have an opinion written by this office.

If we receive an opinion that is favorable than we should

consider taking action to get an injunction against implementing
ESSB 4519.

* Placed call into Eichenberry's office to establish

meeting time. He will not be in the office until late in the
week of March 3rd.

‘ Briefed Doug Ellis, Executive Director of the

Washington State Republican Party, relative to progress in

TNWL 0000110

330 West 42nd 317991) New York NY 101136 26400 Lanser Rona: Suife 312 Somafieiai MI 48034 2125 Biscayne Boulevard Miami; FL 33137

[212) 736-2010 [313) 352-9220 (805) 576-3581
3434 Wesf Sixth Slreef, Los Ange/es 04 90020 361 Newbury Sfreef, Boston, MA 02115 190 East Ninfh Avenue, Denver, CO 80203
(213) 300-5011 (617) 206-2121 (303) 861-7152
212 West Superior Sfreer, Chicago, ILL 60610 8111 LBJ Freeway, Dallas. TX 75251 630 Oakwood Avenue, West Ham‘ord, CT 06110
{312) 619-1131 (214) 644-9696 (203] 953-1889
1930 Cheshuf Sireef, Philadelphia PA 19103 1066 Naﬁonal Press Building Washingfon, DC 20045 1951 Foun‘h Avenue. San Diego, CA 92101
(215) 569-4990 (202) 393-7110 (619) 544-1860
730l-lam'son 517991, San Francisco CA 94107 10260 Wesfheimer. Houston, 7X 77042
[4187 843-3361 (713) 789-1635

A Afﬁliaie

ﬂRAAEﬂﬂﬂPT

DATE February 4, 1992

TIME 5:00-5:30 PM
STATION KEYT-TV(ABC) Channel Three
LOCATION Santa Barbara '
PROGRAM Key News At Five

King Harris, ca-anchor:

It's been two decades since cigarette ads were kicked off
television. Now the tobacco industry's offering a new set of ads
to television stations urging children not to smoke. The Tobacco
Institute's spots calls for kids to talk to their parents before
lighting up. There's also an 800 number you can call to get a
free booklet on how to help your youngsters avoid the habit.

(Graphic: Free Stop Smoking Booklet 1-800-342-9099 From The US
Tobacco Institute)

However, the American Lung Association isn't impressed by the

campaign. A spokesman called it a calculated campaign that makes
smoking appear to be an adult habit.

Jane Rinka, co-anchor:

Which we know itls not. Smoking is unfortunately one of the

causes of health problems which keep the demand for medical
professionals high.

# # #

TIMN 409443

Material supplied by VMS may only be used for internal review. analysis or research. Any publication, rte-broadcast or public display for proﬁt is forbidden,

A videotape of this transcript is available in any iormal for a period of 31 days from air date. audio cassettes for 14 days. Call any VMS office.

 

   
 
    
  

mmmxf'm“ CONFERENCE REPORT
RO.BOX5627
MnslorrSalem, N.C. 27113
(919)7653630
WE“ RIR .PWFF . San Diego Surveys ”"5 3/11/12/91
mNc BM. Chapman star“ M. an, .
HAYMrl. 9 RF. Graham S.A. McLenaghan
( ARR I.L.McCabe 7- S.W. Tucker
W.R. Morgan
CJ. Patti
D.L. Walter
CA R

Client, Agency and CAMEL Brand attended 6 Focus Group sessions on March 11 and
March 12,
1991. The following Conference Report serves only as a top line of the findings.

The 3 sessions on March 11 were comprised of male Marlboro smokers age 18-34. The 3
sessions on March 12 consisted of 1 group of Marlboro smokers, 2 groups of CAMEL
smokers. All attendees had attended at least i sporting event in the last 18 months. Each
group was exposed to 4 CAMEL Brand executions, 4 existing Sports Marketing ads, 9 comps
for proposed Sports Marketing advertising, a sports themed Smooth Magazine and 4
CAMEL sports characters Although the opinions and overall mindset of the groups were
diverse, several creative guidelines were established for CAMEL Sports Marketing
executions:

- Realism is a key ingredient in all concepts accepted by the groups - the vehicles and the
placement of them in the arena must be believable and relevant. (bike ﬂying out of the
stadium) In addition, Ioe must be in a position that is viewed as being conceivable
(wouldn't be on hay bales and other unattainable locations).

Ioe should be involved/ interact and clearly exhibit interest in the sports depicted (not
looking at the action on hay bale execution and the GT sky box comps).

Toe must be relatable, accessible and one of us- yet be "special. “ He 15 viewed as a notch
' above with the right connections yet not an authority figure or a yuppie suit guy (strong
playback on pink jacket, daintily holding pennant rope, holding restricted sawhorse
etc.)

6859 135919

’ Creative executions shOuld consider the strong opinions elicited regarding coloration 1
and the consumers dissemination process. Hot purples and pinks and upscale clothing
and1mages should trigger a red flag Each group had very strong and consistent
playback regarding Miami Vice look, yuppie clothes, vehicle paint schemes etc)

d r a f t k//
. September 30, 1987 ~ 3/”?

MEMORANDUM
To: The Members of the Executive Committee

From: Samuel D. Chilcote. Jr.

 

This morning, Sen. Frank Lautenberg (D-N.J.) proposed in
the transportation subcommittee of the Senate
Appropriations Committee an amendment to the 1988
Transportation Appropriations bill that would ban
smoking on domestic airline flights of two hours or
less, for a three-year test period. Because the
subcommittee had not had an opportunity to hear
arguments on this legislation, it agreed, at the request
of Sen. Thad Cochran (R-HS), to defer consideration
until the full committee meets on the bill tomorrow.

Institute staff and legislative counsel continue their
intensive efforts to persuade committee members that
such legislation is unnecessary and unjustified.

As legislation is under consideration -- without benefit
of hearings -— in the Senate, Rep. Worm Mineta (D—CA)
next Wednesday (October 7) will keep the pledge he made

in July to hold hearings on legislation to ban smoking
on airlines.

The Wednesday hearings, before the Aviation Subcommittee
of the House Public Works and Transportation Committee,
will include testimony from the Administration, the
tobacco and aviation industries, as well as the usual
litany of anti—smoking groups.

Philip W. Hazeltine, deputy assistant secretary for
policy and international affairs, will testify on behalf
of the Department of Transportation. We understand that
DoT will offer strong support for the current

regulation, and repeat its earlier recommendations for
additional study.

Former Rep. Charles Whitley will testify for The
Institute. focusing on public satifaction with the
current rules, lack of scientific evidence on which to
base claims of adverse health effects from ETS, and the
need for additional study. He will be accompanied by
scientific expert Larry Holcomb, who will note problems

TH2030045

— —(“ out I t- \
-\< Z/

Author: J. Gilbert Ashburn October 1, 1956

Division: Chemical Notebook pages: None

RDM, 1956, No. 26 Previous reports: None

mammwm
QEEWWW

m:
The author attended the 130th Meeting of the American Chemical Society

in Atlantic City, September 17 - 21, 1956. Brief information from two inter-
views, two plant tours, and from some of the papers is given in the body of

this report.

Memorandum:

A EMPLO CL H

Two job notices were posted at the Employment Clearing House for organic
and physical chemists to work on the isolation and identification of natural

products. Thirteen applicants signed these notices. Data on these applicants
and on about 30 other organic and physical chemists were brought back to our

laboratory for screening.
INTERVIEW WITH A STE D S HEN

One of the men who signed our job notice was Dr. C. Chen, an Assistant
Professor of Biochemistry at Northwestern University School of Medicine. He
also called me at my hotel and we met and talked for an hour.

I
Dr. Chen has published about 15 papers on natural products, especially
steroids. He is only partly inclined to leave his present connection, but
would be interested in tobacco research that utilized his knowledge of
steroids. He might engage in such research at Northwestern, either sponsored

or gratis.

Dr. Chen feels in particular that the steroids in tobacco should be
characterized, and an effort made to see whether they lead to carcinogenic

materials in tobacco smoke. Also, if any tobacco steroid qualifies as
starting material for a medicinal such as cortisone, the resulting publicity

would be of great value to the tobacco industry.

If Dr. Chen does not qualify for an opening in our laboratory, it is
suggested that he be referred to the Tobacco Industry Research Conunittee for

a possible research grant.

69'10 £9005

WE? ’ ' Inter-officeMemorandum

Subject: 'Carlton 100's - American Date: May 179' 1977 '

To: Dr. J. D. Woods Frown Ronald Sells

Project No.: 2938

Project Title: Product Evaluation Service for MRD

These cigarettes were manufactured in April, 1977 at Durham and are from
the California market. These are the first Carlton 100's to be examined.
The pack advertises 5 mgs. tar and 0.5 mg. nicotine.

The total cigarette length is approximately 100 mm. and includes a 27 mm.
cellulose acetate filter plug which has a denier of 3.1 with an "I" cross
section. The tipping is 32 mm. of white paper which is perforated by 2 rows
of 27 each. The cigarette paper is not perforated and is a low porosity type.

The blend consists of burley, flue—cured, turkish, and G~7 with an average
of 37.2 percent of these tobaccos being expanded.

The cigarettes smoke mild and with a weak tobacco flavor. The top note is
a slightly high level of a sweet; coumarin-like flavor which is characteristic
of several other American products. The cigarettes have considerably more taste
than the 85 nm. version, however, the flavor is still somewhat flat. The over-

all smoking qualities are rated fair.

00/:
Rona d Sells

/vl

5260 LEhOS

 

RJHI FORM 2422—Rcv. 7/70

_—-—————————¥

(Am

. The overall objective for the Corporation-s domestic marketing

I group will be to stop the erosion of the company's market share

; and reestablish itielf in the tobacco industry as a strong and
viable competitor by stabilizing established brande' share of
segment and developing and marketing new products 1n the mainstream,

n:
non—menthol category. To this end, the group‘s (int priority

will be to launch BARCLAY nationally, assuming satisfactory test

market performance. Additional new product work will continue ml

in. other “We new product opportunities recognizing both

current ultra luv u: possibilities as well as new opportunities

which may occur as a consequence or external/environmental changes.
Giving first priority to the launch of a new brand in no way signals
an intent to abandon an aggressive posture with respect to efforts

to minimize the erosion in volume on established brands. K001...

in particular, will be managed with heavy marketing resources

focusing on stabilizing the parent in its category and on finding

the competitive edge that will give the low tar styles greater

growth potant1a1.a'rhe overall objective for the Corporation‘s
established brands is to produce budgeted or better volume within
corporate spending and profit guidelines. In addition, the brands
must pursue an aggressive testing program to demonstrate opportunities
for investing incremental (unds in order to build total share of

market .

mm
f the im mg: is lees clear than
us notice. It is due to the quality
1 the document being ﬂln-d.

 

 

 

 

If r ~:‘.T_:~t,'r'r
‘- r

 

‘lL.
_ .
A (fit? . A )
\xr’.-._...............V... /

Area

 

Current Product
& Conventional

Line Extensions
(Menthol)

(Does not
Include HC
for AWH)

"Fat Boy"/
Product
Improvements

 

Benefits/
Additional Work

 

Benefits As Continuously

Stated.

Additions = Improved

Post Carbonization,

Fuel Source, Product
Transition/Scale—up.

Product Maintenance
Functions.

will give better
assurance that R&D
can thoroughly
understand and
control product
parameters in
Production
Environment.

Reduced CO.

Better Appearance.
Better Consistency
of Heat Transfer.
Reduced Cost.

M
SEERET

ADDRESSEE ONLY

No..4_19__BY

 

Immediate Needs Above Current Bud et q

 

Estimated $
(BC)

1.0 MM
(7 BC + 300 M

for Outside
Contracts)

1.5 MM
(10 HC + 500
for Outside
Contract
Support to
CO, Metal
Fuel Source,
Alternate
Insulators,
One Piece
Substrate,
etc.)

M

 

L665 28905

TOBACCO AND HEALTH

 

~A SOCIETAL CHALLENGE

 

C \

Ernst L. Wynder

DietriCh Hoffmann

.- f.' * From the Naylor Dana Institute and the Health Maintenance
ﬁ‘ _ Institute, American Health Foundation, New York, New York
" 10019. ‘

1 This work was supported in part by National Cancer Institute
Grant Nos. Ca-l7613, Ca-17687 and SHP—74-106 and in part by
American Cancer Society Grant Nos. BC-56 U and RR-88 S.'

The authors are especially grateful to Dr. Linbania JacobsOn,
Chief of the Division of Health Behavior, Dr. Ron Dubren,
Head, Smoking Cessation Activities, and Joan Spivak for

their expertise and assistance in the preparation of this
manuscript. - '7 '

9L96 29209

 

, - - ~ - . . I, ‘. - H ”,A A ., _.‘.MW.__._-‘~ua-.—M-mw—ﬁ+—~r ~v v4 4‘ ' 4‘
. . p , , ' - ' . .
. . .. a, . ‘ . . . - "' ‘ ‘ '

1991 PLAN
NORTH DAKOTA

ROBERT E. FACKLER

SITUATION ANALYSIS

North Dakota has an 80 day state legislative session in 1991.
Prefiling of bills took place December 4—6, 1990. A bill banning
vending machines was prefiled.

The state excise tax on cigarettes was increased from .18 a pack
to .27 in July of 1987. Taxes started the year at .30 per pack.
A sunset provision taking place on 7/91 will lower the tax by .03
to .27 per pack.

1)

3)

4)

Qigarette Excise Tax Increase; It is likely that a bill to
repeal the "Sunset Clause" that lowers the tax on cigarettes
.03 per pack and is scheduled to take effect July 1, 1991 will
be introduced. It would keep the tax on a pack of cigarettes
at .30 per pack. There is also a strong anti—tax sentiment
in ND. But a repeal of the Sunset Clause is an easier vote
for the legislature than a new tax increase. For this reason,
I feel it could pass. The SRGs will be working to fight the

repeal.

gtherMTQbagcomTaxe§;_ A bill increasing taxes on other tobacco
products will likely be introduced. with the strong anti~tax
sentiment in ND a vote for an increase in new taxes would be
a much tougher vote than a repeal of the Sunset Clause. There
is 50\50 chance of this one passing. Any Tax increase is
unacceptable to the SRGs and they will be opposing it.

§mokingwkestrigtignsi A Clean Indoor Air bill will likely be
introduced. Some parts of it could very well pass. The SRGs
have fought smoking restrictions in the past and will continue

to make this issue a priority.

ﬁampling_yanz There is a 50/50 chance that a bill will be

introduced. It is however, unlikely to pass. North Dakotan's
are notorious for not wanting Government to interfere with the

business community.

Ln
(<3
03

“I

(n
(,0

(9

.33“ r PR()TE("YED BY \[INNESOTA TOBACCO LITIGATIO‘ PROTECT“ E ORDER

A ERIN“ L HILLIAHSON TOBACCO CORPORATION

RESEARCH 5: DEVELOPMENT

FILE NOTE

SUBJECT: PAPER RECON FROM MARLBORD K5 AND HARLEORD HENTHOL LIGHTS
lOO'S/ASI

AUTHOR: E. D. Alford
‘5‘
DATE: November 10. 1987

CC: H. L. Reynolds, 1. F. lilhl. C. N. Kounnas, A. HcHuxHiz,
D. V. Cantrell. J. E. l‘uterhach. J. L Nall. U. K. Deities.
R‘ R. Jnhnson. E. F. thzinget. D. A. Colby. W. R. Conway.
R. H. Harshall

A'l'l()N

SUMMARY

the page: recon. from Htrlhom xs ma Marlboro Menthol Lights 100‘.
were found no he mmm. The paper recan rm. Hatlhoru K5
canning}: nu And therefore exhibited the sugar-annuals products. Th:
Hulhuto Menthol Lightl 100-. paper men did not contain phosphnt: xn
excess 9f the level typically found in ”S that: an DA! has added.
therefore, an Levm of the lu‘Ir-almonil "Rum ware wuzh Iowa:
(so-as!) in the piper man frou Marlboro Han a). Light; 100‘s.

9
‘1
L1
<
a
c

    

x: In: not been pthIn. but the 2mm fur the m mm men are
.no mum to be different. The furnish for the paper recan found
in szlboru K5 was though! to be hzlvily skewed (ﬂint, burley while.
the furnish (or m Marlboro Menthol Lights 100'. was thaught m be
slend tow-rd (lurcured fmlnh.

A coup-risen of the mm um um recau (mu Hulhoro Inf-me also
nude. This rampart-m Ihmtcd that paper recon exhibited not: of ma
sugnmnh tuctim: product: fmmd $1: the duk recon uul in lbw:
the un- qunntltiu. Th- njar dlfhnncn wen found in the Vlltile
allyl pynuuu rum hi the PET prufilu.

()NFIDEN'I'IAIA MINNESOT

(

1,
‘ INTIOWCTXOII

lob Johnna-1 hid incl-ted (h: ”per "can (to- Hu'lbnra KS and Harmon:

mum nghtl loo a. mu -lel‘llll. along with the dark recon from 9
Marlboro Is. a." unlined by purge-And-ltlp (PET) And dine:

lllylltioﬂ (D5) (SC—OS. ﬁll cdﬁmdm of both of then: lulyul

lhmd thn valnilu Ero- tho unylpynzimu to deoxyfmtalnllu Ind m
fmloilllul. nut- (to: both a! the “-1qu wet: used to tench the
cnuclulionl drawn in thin {11: nota.

312 76066

 

 

A.

Q _ CENTURY ' "'
Marketing Strategy Summary 7 , _

Objective

The Brand‘s objective is to solidify CENTURY's position
among value-conscious smokers as a superior alternative to
reduced price brands, leading to share of market growth.

Overall Strategy

Implement marketing programs designed to 1) establish and
maintain high awareness of CENTURY‘s product quality
advantages relative to other branded and non-branded
offerings within the savings segment, and 2) continue
emphasis on the inherent savings of CENTURY when purchased
by the carton. A trial-oriented promotionswstrategy will
support advertising's primary communication of product
quality.

Brand Positioning

CENTURY is a uniquely packaged brand with 25 cigarettes per
pack for value—conscious smokers, who are primarily down—
scale and over 25, which provides them with the savings of
the package in combination with a taste equal to the best
available.

Spending

Advertising and promotion expenditures will total in
1985, with a 70:30 advertising to promotion spending ratio.
Advertising weight will be emphasized to build and sustain
high awareness levels among target smokers of CENTURY'S
product quality and savings benefits.

Geographic Emphasis

Target both media and promotion programs to markets charac-
terized by high proportions of value-conscious smokers.
These will be identified according to CENTURY development
50% and generics growth rate (50%).

Product

Conduct on-going product development and testing to ensure
that of minimum parity performance versus Marlboro is
maintained for all CENTURY brand styles. Each CENTURY product
is planned to incorporate a reduced cost four-component blend
by 1985.

4995. 89505

 

C'DSMKQ 7C

silicosis where they had been exposed to mines which irritated the
respiratory tract. Deformation of the respiratory tract due to sili-

We a waxing on the develoPment of chronic bronchitis
and airway obs motion than immoderate cigarette smoking." '
_ W—

mm, Gum university of Mmich

/ "Chronische Bronchitis und staubkonzentration am Arbeitsplatz." (Chronic
/ bronchitis and dust concentration at the place of work) (Mmehener

Medizinische Wochenschrii't 118/7: 209-12, February 1976: authors'
English summary)

"In connection with the chronic bronchitis key program of the

German Research Society 1501 workers in a Mmich engineering plant with
foundry were examined f on 19 0

mt the work place, bronchitic symptoms such as coughing and sputum

become significantly more frequent. Obstructive ventilation disturbances

do not increase. smokers show an overwhelmin reater frequency

of bronchitic symptoms n ose e osed o excess ve dust. The n—
crease In BroncEIaI oEstru' cﬁon In reEtIon to the consumption of tobacco

is remarkable. The effect of age seems to be rather less than that of
smoking and greater than that of dust."

5. M DIGESTIVE SYSTEM

JORGENsm, 'r.o. a. GYNTELBERG, F., University of Copenhagen, Denmark

, "Occurrence of peptic ulcer disease in Copenhagen males age h0-59."
(Danish Medical Bulletin 23/1: "23-8, February 1976)

"The occurrence of peptic ulcer disease in Copenhagen males was
investigated using a. sample consisting of 5,249 individuals aged l+0-59.
Every subject had an interview on the basis of a questionnaire, which

yielded information on previous diseases, working conditions, plwsical
activities, and consumption of stimulants and medicine. At the exam-

ination height, weight, and indirectly measured maximal aerobic power
were measured.

"A subject who had an ulcer confirmed by x-rays and had been
treated for ulcer diseases was included as an ulcer individual.

"Ninety per cent of the 5,219 individuals participated in a
one-year follow-up examination.

' i e-t ncidence of peptic ulcers was 9.2 per cent a one-
year incidence 1.2 per cent. 4
M

" oe marital status and shift work were unrela ed to
peptic ulcer. Psychological stress at gor was preach in more ulcer

ls than in controls, was without sign ficance in the group's
of individuals deve1oping ulcer isease during the one-year follow-up.

"A positive correlation hemggn tobgggg ggoking and peptic ulcgr
existed n - ence group, but not in the one- ear incidence
W

A

‘5095 58 +105

T54.

 

1DI1IMETH0MOR'P111 . I'

  
  
  
 

EPA Reviewer. L..Ha11Isen. Ph D. .
Review Section IV, Toxicology Branch I (75090.0éml

EPA Section Head: M. Copley, 1). v.- M. M Date M
.Review Section IVI Toxicology Branch I (7509C) ' -
. I I ,I iI DATA EVALUATIroNI "111510le ,I
I 'Im: Chronic FIeedinIg— IDog (83-1) I
, w: New Chemical. I
II 2.52.9925. 268800 I _
MED—Ml! 422339-11 (Chronic Study) 421153- I06 I(Range- 1111111111; ISt1I1Idy)
I ‘W’. sAo 151 (Dinie'thomorph) I ‘

W: CME IS]; 250; WL 127 294; 4- -[3- (4- ohlorophenyI)-3- -I(3. 4-d1methoxyphenyl) »I .
acryloyIJmo'rphOline; 4- -[3- (4 chlorophenyl)- -3- -,(3 4I- I-dimethoxyphenyl)- l-oxo-Z- » - . -

prop'enyIJmorphoIine (Agrochemicals Handbook The Royal ISIoeiIeIty_ of Chemistry, I31'IId.I
edI.I,ThotI11aIs Graham Il-Iouse. Cambridge E11Igland,Il992)III .-. .

 

. ~ W IRI6368_76(42233I9 IlIl Chronic) Study) IRI635228 (421153-0
' 2' - Range-ﬁnding Study) ' , . . .

 

' 5mg: Shell International Chemical Co (CelameIrcIk GImbl-II and ICIon1pany KG); .WIesi
Germany . . .

' W: Inveresk Research International (IRI), Musselbttrgh.I IScoItland

W: 52 Week Dietary Toxicity Study 1n Dogs I
m: R. Goburdhun and RJ. IGrIeenough - '

IREEQRT ISSUED: INovemberl. l99l

W: In a 1— —year chronic toiticity study, din1ethon16i'ph (tech; 96 6_%-I
a. i. ) was administered to four male and four female beagle dogs/dose group in the diet at,

. concentrations of 0.150 450 or 1350 ppm (equivalent to doses of O 4 9 14.7 or 44. I6
mg/kg/day for males and 0.. 5. 0, 15. 7 or 47.0 Inglkg/day for fetnales) for one year.

At. 1350 ppm increased alkaline phosphatase activity was observed thronghout the stody 111
both sexes (at 51 weeks 245%, males and 31,096 females) and absolute and relative prostate
. weights were decreased by approxilnately 50%. TIheI- observed effeets did not haic

9688 LQVZS

Junel994 II .-,‘:.I '1

 

“ﬁ—r- ._ w

 

r.

DRAFT-DRAFT-DRAFT-DRAFT-DRAFT—DRAFT—DRAFT-DRAFT-DRAFT-DRAFT—DRAFT

HIGHLIGHTS DATE: April 24, 1990
BIOBEHAVIORAL RESEARCH 1

Psychophysiology of Smoking — Integration of analytical chemistry data with
EEG, heart rate, task-performance, and mood/feeling rating data from the
1989 EEG study was begun. Subjects were segregated into 3 groups based on

pre— to post—smoking plasma nicotine 'rise'. Appropriate analyses of
variance are underway.

Drs. Reynolds, Robinson, and Pritchard met discuss a study to determine the
optimal structure for DFC (Desire For Cigarette) measurement. In a
subsequent meeting, Drs. Robinson and Pritchard planned the detailed
experimental design.

Basic Sensory Research - Evoked brain potentials, respiration, and sensory
data were collected from one subject during exposure to nicotine. This
session completed collection of required evoked potential data for 6
subjects. Collection of data from subject 5, an in—house volunteer, is all
that remains for the completion of this phase of the work.

Mr. Roger Jennings prepared computer files of sensory attribute data on ETS
chemicals from recently published reports. Sensory information on
chemicals in ETS will be incorporated into a relational database that
contains other information on the compounds. The data base will be used to
answer end-user questions on specific chemicals or sensory characteristics.

UNIFY database software, currently on the Biobehavioral Division’s SUN
computer, was evaluated by Mr. Jennings for use with the ETS data.

Dr. Jim Walker attended the 12th annual meeting of the Association of
Chemoreception Sciences. He presented a paper entitled "Effects of Odorants
on Respiratory Behavior and Nasal Patency." It was timely, owing to a

great deal of interest by meeting participants in the question of perceived
irritation in humans. The following were noted at the meeting: an increase

in research on primate gustatory and olfactory systems, renewed interest in
“taste" sensations mediated by the olfactory system, increased
representation of manufacturers of fragrances and others who use fragrances
to enhance product appeal, increased competition among NIH— —funded
chemosensory centers, increased interest in the "olfactory deficit" in
Alzheimer’ s disease, sophisticated use of voltage— —sensitive dyes and video—
imaging techniques, interest in the measurement of human respiratory
behavior, an increase in the number of industrial chemosensory scientists
conducting psychophysical studies, an increase in the number of
chemosensory scientists in consumer product R&D, and increased interest in
odorant—evoked potentials.

Smoke Component Dose - Mr. Davis sought information from Dr. Brian Lawrence
and Mr. Brian Smeeton (P&AT) about tea cultivation and the use of nicotine
sulfate as a pesticide. Mr. Davis is preparing to survey a number of teas
for potential nicotine content. We and others have observed nicotine in
teas previously.

Nicotine Receptor Pharmacology — Dr. Eric Fluhler continued to characterize

 

the effects of nicotine on calcium flux in synaptosomes prepared from adult ””

rat brain. Results indicate that micromolar concentrations of nicotine
significantly increase intrasynaptosomal concentrations of calcium.
Modulation of calcium levels is thought to help regulate the release of
neurotransmitters from nerve terminals in vivo. The abilities of several

8809 GSLQS

‘ HKEGDAMOBS
Iv. mm VERSUS 13mm more

 

General Cements

It is obviously difficult to separate influences on the initiation
of cardiovascular diseases and those which affect the development of such
diseases once they are established.

This is especially true where recognition and classification of the
disease occur only after other symptoms exist, as is usually the case.

As might be expected, there is no ma and fast rule or universally
consistent clinical opinion on this mtter. It is clear that individuals
differ in response to smoking and to their deprivation from the habit.

Further research may conceivably indicate that a sufficiently high
percentage of those with established degrees of cardiovascular disorders will
react so unravel-ably to smoking as to Justify medical advice on certain courses

of restrictive action. This, however, is properly a matter of relationship
between the individual doctor and his patient. The desired situation is one

which will involve as broad and comprehensive knowledge as can possibly be
acquired to guide the profession in the light of its clinical experience.

The references appended will present opinions which are based on
such experience. may sh‘mzld be considered as being contributory rather than

conclusive and as being selected for purposes of comparison.

The important point is that more refined and sophisticated
longitudinal studies of controlled populations of apparently normal individuals
are sorely needed. These should aid in refining our recognition of departures
from normalcy which represent the earliest evidence of the diseases undm‘
study and which, therefore, may be closely connected with their origin.

Similarly, manipulable populations of patients with established
early cardiovascular diseases should provide material for more sophisticated
clinical studies of factors which may influence the progress and course of

these diseases.

Until such studies are organized and bear fruit we shall have to
be content with a type of evidence which leaves doubt as to whether we are
dealing with factors which influence origin alone, progressive development

alone, or both.

Ocular, Cerebral and Other
Peripheral Circulation ;

According to Bettmn, Fellows, et a1... the effect of cigarette
smoking on intraocular blood volime in man is not known. They have, therefore,

used animals for camerimentation.

If the cigarette was smoked at the norml rate there was no
effect. If it was smoked rapidly there was a significant rise in intraocular
volume. Denicotinized cigarettes gave generally similar results.

. .w'w—.c-.~.. ... . .... ..

._...... Q”... 1...‘ . “a...”

..L....L—..‘o.. -... .. .

Author: Dr. S. 0. Jones

To:

Re:

MPDR-T, 1968, N0. 4

Tobacco Products Development

Dr. R. E. Farrar April 30, 1968
Director of Product Development

MONTHLY PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT REPORT Period Covered: March 21
Tobacco Products Development through April 29, 1968
MPDR—T, 1968, No. 4 '

No. of Pages: 7

A. SPECIAL CIGARETTES FOR MARKETING DEPARTMENT

1. Brothers Filter

a. Mold Modifications

The design of_the Brothers Filter has been modified on both the
exterior and interior of the filter.

The exterior of the filter.has been modified in order to improve
performance of the filter on the filter making machine and to obtain
a design which would be different from the outside of the Parliament
mouthpiece. The original structure of the serrated Brothers Filter
was such that when cigarettes were made the serrated plug meshed with
the roll drum on the making machine and resulted in creasing of the

tipping. Three approaches have been tried to eliminate this:

(l) The section of the roll drum under the filter
was filled to give a smooth surface. The
creasing effect was eliminated but tipping
was wrinkled in spots.

(2) The number of serrations was reduced from
18 to 10 in order to avoid meshing. This
eliminated creasing and this type filter
will be evaluated more extensively on the
making machine.

(3) The outside structure has been designed
to give a diamond shaped pattern. A sam-
ple of these filters has been shipped and
will be tested this week.

 

£999 6LZOS

 

 

HG—Chromo-Sister Chrom-In Vitro
October, 1983

PURPOSE

 

The sister chromatid exchange (SCE) assay detects the ability
0E a chemical to enhance the exchange of DNA between two
sister chromatids of a duplicating chromosome. The test may
be performed in vitro, using, for example, rodent or human
‘cells, or in vivo using mammals, for example, rodents such as

mice, rats and hamsters.

II. DEFINITION

Sister chromatid exchanges represent reciprocal interchanges
of the two chromatid arms within a single chromosome. These
exchanges are visualized during the metaphase portion of the
cell cycle and presumably require enzymatic incision,
translocation and ligation of at least two DNA helices.

III. REFERENCE SUBSTANCES

_______..—————-—-—-

Not applicable.
IV: TEST WSTHCD

A. Principle

Following exposure of cell cultures to test chemicals,
they are allowed to replicate in the presence of
bromodeoxyuridine (ardu), followed by treatment with
colchicine or colcemid to arrest cells in a metaphase-
like stage of mitosis (c-metaphase). Cells are then
harvested and chromosome preparations made.
Preparations are stained and metaphase cells analyzed

for SCEs.

3. Description

In vitro SCE assays may employ monolayer or suspension
cultures of established cell lines, cell strains or
primary cell cultures. Cell cultures are exposed to
test chemical and are allowed to replicate in the
presence of BrdU. Prior to harvest, cells are treated
with a spindle inhibitor (e.g. Colchicine or Colcemid W)
to accumulate cells in c-metaphase. Chromosome
preparations from cells are made. stained and analyzed

for SCEs.

,4

5083 08609

 

 

”I."
6
:g
\3
0

 

m . 9/6!“
-- auPponmm. W565 ,3 n
"“""—"" n n
s‘mws 0w *
~L— SEEM
suemw MAWM... “:03 5 I ‘ My
- .. N

(5'; 5T0“ 6 Low “emu” my POL «anew;

LOADIU‘ («mu 8-! ’ Laue, ¢LAVOL§M gym 0M “MW-1‘0,
E'om cm'umo Ham: AT euo » comma]

(1) WV] «mam.

0
. Wwwmmyommt

0110 am sum

Br uceo 10 3mm ANIMAL.
- 0. law Has sum. sch-ﬂaunt. Wazoo mg“; m: In rwsmme

MEL
- Fauna-um 'DWMMM‘OF «oi—om: 8v (>110

Prdo (Holman was 11mm.

 

 

. hm MT v ., Samueuc, — _ 3:
neopmum S 0” 05am E'QMFWNT) 0&060. meta-(WT - 9/30/ 9° "‘

WT‘M‘ RM!- WMT 113.0.) " x
”mm?! ohm. mouwrueaos moms To suﬂPU/ -— W 2'.

00 - DNW PLANT PM, WW EQmPMM M/II/i’o'

 

THE 1989 DEUEL CONFERENCE ON LIPIDS

EQQELEEQ
W8 Hana-W
WWdW
WWW
WWW—2319x223
(M:2¥$u2-70‘8)
WRKM_1990#
AltrEdW.M‘991
WEWJSQQ
muwxsaa
mama-2199:
Fvw-T.Lnogcen_fleaszmr
WW:
MyolCahbrm

Berkeley. Cam: 94720
(M;u$456—£504)

WJMWW'

W Ream Imam. 1315M -

Unnmsrty o! Caﬁﬂorraa
San ancxsoo; Cabana 94143-0130
(Phone: Mans-MG)

' EML Beerman. Fxno'mg
Wanted-ens
www.m—zs /
lkwetsnyolwwmn
Sentimwasmwgzmsmss
(Mamas-315m

_Pr_ogram Committee »

Robert W. Mable-y. manner:
Gladstom W Laboramnos
Unmamy cl,Cakforma
San Ramon. Gamma 94140

(Phone: 415 “7500)

John D. anleﬁ. 1990

Peter A. Emma. 1991

27 May 1989
Background Information on the Deuel Conference On Lipids.

The Deuel Conference on Lipids was Organized by’a small grOup
of eminent West Coast scientists interested in lipid research, to
provide for the western states a conference on lipids similar to
the Gordon Conferences.v Shortly after it'was organized, one of the
founders, Harry Deuel, 7died and the conference was named in his
memory. The conference has been held annually since abbut 1955 in
various West Coast locations.

Generally the conference is devoted to one or two subjects and
both basic and clinical materials are presented." The two and
One-ha_lf day conference consists of five sessions beginning Wednes—
day or Thursday morning and running until Friday or Saturday, and
is held in late February or early March.. Each sésSion is
introduced by a speaker chosen for his or her high stature in the
field. These speakers review  their own and related wor-k. Each re—

' view is followed by a few small presentations and general
‘discussion of a disease process. Informality and wide interchange

of information and views are encouraged by limiting the size of thex
groups, by the round table format, and. by not recording or publish—'
ing the discussions. ‘
Until .1968,1 the conferences were organized‘ by. Dr. L.w.
Kinsell, and since that time they have continuedLunder'a,broadly73
based rotating leadership.. The original policies of the conference '
have been preserved to keep within the traditional budget, to main—
tain the informal atmosphere, and to provide the depth and breadth
of expertise necessary for a high quality conference.

The attendance has been kept at less than 100 persons to in4_
sure informality. A few established investigators in the field of
lipids, mostly from west of -the Continental Divide, are regularly_
invited to attend. Lipid scientists in the west are informed of
the coming program and are invited to apply for a place around the
table.v The Program Chairman selects participants on the basis of.
relationship of the research interests of applicants to the proe
gram. These participants are expected to provide their own travel,
and living expenses. All attendees are expected to be present for
the entire conference.r ‘

The funds-to,defrayythe expense of speakers and cbnference
costs.are sought from industrial firms which have a general‘interF
est in the area of lipids. Donors are extended the privilege of
sending a participant(s) to the conference. However, because ofv
the limited size and the increasing interest in the conference, it.
has become necessary recently to adopt the policy of restricting
the participants of the supporting firms to two, with a minimum
donation of $1500 per attendee.'

E.L. Bierman, Chairman‘
FundingTCOmmittee
'1989,Deuevaonference oanipidsz

 

 

 

 

 

Views expressed at the press conference at Folkets Hus,

June 187 1979, Fourth World Conference on Smoking and Health

 

General: approx. 30 journalists, of which about 15 participated
in their capacity as delegates from foreign organisations.

The press conference was a resumé of the morning presentations
and questions related to these presentations. A great number

of the questions dealt with:

— the resources of information of the tobacco industry vs

official institutions

— the tobacco growing countries‘ economical profit from tobacco
— health questions and their social consequences
‘— legislation or not

7 ecological factors

— the responsibility of politicians

: the situation iancandinavia ‘

The conference was held in a room that was too small. There were

no micorphones or loudspeakers, and both questions and answers

were hard to distinguish in the rather noisy audience.

Examples of points of views that were put forth —- naturally

‘mainly against smoking and growing of tobacco:

— The social insight about the damaging effects of smoking

accelerates quickly, primarily in the industrialized countries.

- Increasing consideration is given to the non—smokers, who

increase in number and consequently dare claim more consideration.

— Smoking is a kind of suicide and therefore the scientific

research has to consider its work relative to suicide.

 

— Legislation against smoking was not recommended. However,

local regulations should be made possible to prohibit smoking

in public places.

U1
0
’3
M
\1
N
I: .
3!
O

'— The economical advantage of the industry when it comes to
information on smoking and its consequences is enormous.v
In this respect, politicians should take greater responsibility.

A certain improvement in this respect can now be noted.

— Too small a part of the tax revenues from tobacco is used in

campaigns against smoking.

./2

 

 

 

 

New Entrantsand NPMs

Activity to Date
MSA provisions to level the playing ﬁeld. 35 states have passed MSA Exhibit T legislation which
includes escrow payments, volume adjustment, and NPM adjustment.

Ongoing meetings with state AGs to identify the problem and solutions, and with FTC to urge them to
ﬁnd labeling not in compliance.

Gaps and Weaknesses
States will have difﬁculty distinguishing NI’M product.

States may have difficulty collecting escrow monies.
15 states have not yet passed Exhibit T legislation.
The 4 previously settling states (FL, TX, MS, MN) have little incentive to pass it.

Indians are sovereign nations. it is unclear what, if anything, we or government ofﬁcials can do, other
than monitoring for possible violations of state and federal regulations.

What Can be Done
Finalize passage of MSA enabling legislation in remaining 1] MSA states and 4 non-MSA states.

industry must constantly remind AG's of neccessity to enforce NI’M provisions (letters, meetings)

Set up a quarterly Working Group which could include Original and Subsequent Manufacturers, ATF,
trade groups (NACS, NWMA, etc), and others (NAAG, state revenue e.g.). The Working Group will
assist in:

- reporting regulatory violations, gray market activity

— enforcement of escrow payments and other MSA provisions,

— analysis of other possible solutions.

Participating Manufacturers and retailers must establish a system for reporting the existence of Non-
Participating Manufacturers' product to state authorities to assist the states in collecting escrow

payments.

Push for state licensing of imported cigarettes. License would become tool for collecting NPM escrow
payments.

9908 981739

 

UNEDITED TRANSLATION

BE: PRESENTATION BY PROFESSOR DR. SCHMAEBL IN BERLIN
NOVEIBER 23, 1979 '

Professor Schmaehl presented a lecture at the Berlin

meeting of Clinicians and Otorhinolaringologic Specialists

on November 23, 1979. on the pathogenesis of malignant tu-
more in the oral cavity, larynx, esophagus and lung. There

is no doubt that the attending doctors were strongly,moved,

by the lecture. Prof. Schmaehl knew how to present the
relationships in a short period and illuminating manner.
_whereby the presentation was less scientific and more designed
for a continuous education for the participatns. rln discussing
the subject, Prof. Scbmaehl naturally included the.problem of
smoking and health. He presented the problem in‘a restrained
'manner which is worth noticing. He emphasized the following:

1. Smoking is one risk factor among many and it is
exclusively up to the smoker to decide whether he is
willing to take the risk associated with smoking.‘

2. The introduction of filter cigarettes reduced Very
significantly the risk of smoking. It is possible that
further progress in cigarette manufacture will lower.
the risk still further. ‘

3. The idea advanced by Prof. Oeser. that cancer deaths
are "fate", may be correct. however, this concept can
hardly satisfy a scientist. More so. because of the‘
evidence of the possibility of cancer induction in
animal experiments and seemingly also in humans of
every age group with chemical substances and environ-

mental factors.

4. There are no indications that certain psychological
dispositions play a role in carcinogenesis. the opposite

may rather be the case.

5. The presentation lasted about 45 minutes. the subject
of smokinr was dealt with for about five to ten minutes.
The short -ime used for this subject should have created
the impression that today's smoking can not be so dangerous.

November 27, 1979 Dr. F. Adlkofer

 

SOZL (.9009

 

 

 

 

*T'muuommumtmacmmmmﬁo‘ﬁfﬁmr

MummmdewwmmwmA
mmmmofmmﬂmfmmmwwmw

to 41thin between duct: 0! different woos 0! products. in wow 0! difﬁcult-cs m
natal-smug smolung hmones adequatoiv m WIOMI studios. and of the ml: 0!
bus when smoker: much to low at products as a moi: of amloomq svmptom
mum"cm"nudyn$t. manu’swudmlooodonmhwxmddolmm
MummmuawhohmmmthMw
wmuw.m~gnmm¢ymmlw.wwmmdw
“mu"m-quummWMgnmquMaMw-m
ammbordwmuobmmtmwbomm. |

Thownducuonmtolmommu’ﬁ mm}. anamommonﬁon
works: Hmamimowoimmnm. MMqundmmad-fﬁculou m
WmmWMnManmwmmamf
muamﬂmmwwmmmtmmwomunm " tho
Wmommwdmmdmdy(mamosommm
cﬂmhmmnw).wndoMymumwmum-wopmg
MMMmdmwmummWMWml
mwmmwmmmmummrmd
WmAmmwmmMombudWMM

.mmammmmammmmmmm

mwhmdmmmmmuanWMaWot
“MMWMNTMYMWWdom-mtaw
Mmmmwmm(&num's).mwm
WM(W)NWWM&§SWIWM
Wmhmmhmmmmmmw
“mmmmnmvmmammncmummmw
mm.

WmmMmemmammmmm
mmimaigumminvmsn.m~nawbwcfun¢nguhmtm
Tmlnmwmwmwmumwwdwﬂoomw
W.Mmmmnumwm.mmupmamm
WMIMMWWmmmmnmmdmmn ham
WIWMINMmquWMIWmW
WMrﬂch-doq

 

ELBO LZSOS

 

      
    
    
   
   
   
     
    
     
    
    
     
       
     
       
      
     
    
      
     
    
       
   
      
    
     
     

will be possible only whena"

Prevention . . .
disease has been un-

zhe aetiology of the
avelled.

Editorial .‘
The British Medical Journal

July 17, 1976

y.

Esophageal cancer studies sometimes have reported

statistical associations with several factors, including

alcohol, diet and smoking. The Surgeon General‘s reports have

interpreted such studies as showing tha

cant cause of the disease. Any such conclusion, however,

pidemiological studies, espe—
A

overlooks the basic tenet that e
cannot prove cause and effect.

cially of chronic diseases,
"this limitation is

prominent epidemiologist's warning that

seems relevant to the evaluation of

hageal cancer.1

sometimes forgotten“

claims that smoking is a cause of esop

While smoking and esophageal cancer have been statis-

tically related in some studies, the link has not been re-

estigators who studied esopha
"there would

ported worldwide. Inv geal cancer

patterns in Greenland, for example, noted that

appear to be no association with the me:

tobacco.'2v - "

In northern China, one area has had an estremely high

esophageal cancer rate for centuries. An Australian epidemi-

that theories about the disease ocCurrence

ologist has noted

33

 

 

 

$3.! Mag Enron! uh H: g in N’s—o an inn»- 3:.9151. ID» as:

Q Wang}— ﬁFo—naﬁh gunman—u 255 9.33 00383.3" 59 En 9.»ti 053053 On 35W EON—dun“
I <3 can»? DbBImranxaé—Sao vac—Iago." 0181" Hon 8+.x. om manna—mu— g was“:
I an»: gnu—wan: a». E ﬂuke: mu E0.» 8 08¢ gunmen Swab 90 g gnome—Q
O Edam Saran-E among 2.0 $0qu mounon 83A 335859.50 on. mean no“: a». unnmnbnoxcmmmwaq
I 02.25 cyan" 49%. 3.000500 Banngmﬂoo Ava»! was mink awn—”v. “£45053 5 nNnne—u ecu—05.
I dunno" 0». Avon." waving—0.. vohw 0:33 vommmob amou— mm man cam» Mommas—g. ch noun—u?
I V3. ”ﬁlm mu mung 55:50 419 no maﬁa—noun an? Am» wanna no .53 #65 N "Gunman Bgngov
0 ~56 nun—Nan graham “3&5an Run
I 39.0 55:55 N» aura—ago ~95»
I >ESBNEO hula—I <0~¢Bo Evian—553 we». 33...— Bannwmﬂmmmmbm
9 gang: Nowmh\wmu€ mica mac—do MEN—poo among mun—Haw m: 50 man-mm anon». 95 952» 0D 030mg! any»; Bomb-Eda
I 010 aminmm uewEoD $36.5 En “mm—om ham—u I Ewan—u. «in 353 I gain»? mpg—En BEE

I >HO ><> ﬂag «pagan—mm 833.538» SE 0539.50 9.7»:
I acngoﬂnmobnn <35,“ gown no aggnn vast» Hn<a_M\mHmnm

 

mummw mwmq

 

.4 ~\

 

 

 

 

 

a 1m; E1 2111111

May 20, 1982

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

WINSTON Ultra Lights 85/Merit Ultra Lights 85'
1982 Competitive Product Test
(MDD #82—31105)

Background

This competitive product test was conducted in late March, 1982,
to provide an assessment of current WINSTON‘s Ultra Lights 85
performance relative to its marketing action standards. The
previous competitive test (August, 1981) showed WINSTON Ultra
Lights 85 to be at parity with Merit Ultra Lights 85 among the
current action standard smokers. This previous test was fielded
when WINSTON Ultra Lights had white tipping versus Merit‘s cork
tipping. The WINSTON Ultra Lights tested for this report is the
new product with cork tipping and a new blend which began pro-
duction in late February, 1982.

Action Standard

Superiority versus Merit Ultra Lights 85 among male 25—34 LT NM
80—85mm competitive smokers (excluding WINSTON Lights 85).

Conclusions

9 WINSTON Ultra Lights 85 was rated superior (meeting its action
standard) versus Merit Ultra Lights 85:

, % 70+
WINSTON Ultra Merit Ultra
Smokers Lights 85 Lights 85
LT NM Target Competitive . 38

e WINSTON Ultra Lights 85 was given favorable ratings for its
greater strength and ideal mildness (Merit Ultra Lights was
rated too mild). The WINSTON product was also judged to be
more satisfying, more natural tasting, and having more rich
taste. WINSTON Ultra Lights 85 was not judged to have any
product weaknesses versus Merit Ultra Lights 85.

a Relative to consumer wants, WINSTON Ultra Lights 85 could be
improved by increasing strength, smoothness, and tobacco taste.
Harshness needs to be reduced. '

Robb L. McCann - §:f§\\ g
Marketing Development Department 11, ~

RLM/dsw

zzgs zheog

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

W. I'llTllll ll'lllES
[Ell SEIEIIEE [EI'ITER

Leonard E. Benade, Ph.D.
Grant #1719

Description: Dr. Benade proposes to isolate and characterize a gene which
suppresses the action of the oncogene Kirsten RAS. He will do this by
first isolating human cells, HOS, with two copies of RAS so that mutants
which lose oncogenecity will not be due to loss of RAS. He will then look
for revertants which no longer express the transformed phenotype after
mutagenesis. He‘ will partially select for such cells using oubain.
Revertants are more resistant. He will check these revertants for
rescuabable virus, inability to grow in agar and inability to produce
tumors in nude mice. Such cells will be fused with mouse NIH 3T3 cells
which have been transformed with Kirsten sarcoma virus. Hybrids with
suppressed oncogenecity will be selected with oubain. Since human chromo-
somes are preferentially lost in mouse-human hybrids, the suppressed cells
should with time have less and less human DNA. Human DNA will be isolated
from such cells, using alu sequences as a probe. This DNA will be used to
transfect Kirsten transformed mouse cells and suppressed cells will be
selected with oubain. Dr. Benade expects to eventually clone the suppressor
gene.

Critigue: The idea is a good one and the isolation of a gene which sup-_
presses an oncogene will add greatly to _ our understanding of
carcinogenesis. He has a very good publication record. Overlap with
pending NIH application should be examined.

Recommendation: Approval - Merit A.

ﬁogéon H. Sato, P;.D. /My0

50244186

1)

2)

3)

MS SIGNIFICANT ACTIVITIES
w/o 10/6/86

Brand met with Production Planning to develop a manufacturing
timetable for Project MS. Production is tentatively scheduled
for a 2/16/87 start-up date, with test market quantities
available by 2/25 for a 3/30 DTS. These dates will be confirmed
once quantity requirements per style are provided by Forecasting.

Brand met with Purchasing and Packaging Technology to discuss
timing and next steps for MS packaging development/production.
A timetable was developed, to be presented as part of the total
MS marketing plan the week of 10/13. As current status,

pack and carton comps have been reviewed by Management and
minor revisions requested to improve the readability of the
medalion logo and to use the conventional spelling of "lights"
rather than "lites" on the FFLT style. Revised designs are
expected this week.

Long, Haymes and Carr presented to the Brand revised creative
for several alternative MS advertising campaigns which currently
are under consideration for the April 1987 test market. The
Agency also provided additional price and quality descriptors
which were developed under the objective of succinctly
communicating MS' dual benefits of virile/young adult user
imagery and generic price. Brand selected several visuals

for development into color comps to be presented to R. A. Kampe
this week. Creative and alternative copy lines will then be
taken to focus groups the week of 10/27.

6168.22509

 

' prescribed in 5 96.130, and will enforce such law in- a manner-that-
can reasonably be expected to reduce the extent to which tobacco

products are available to individuals under the age of 18;
‘30 14/ 52% M 9%
4; Section 96. eesbis as follows:

4W ~ _ . . .
j tate law regarding sale of tobacco products to lnlelduaiS under

age of 18.

(a) For purposes of this. section, the term "first applicable
fiscal year“ means 11 calwyear 19-94, except in the case of any
' State described if/Ei'wlézsfa) (2) of the PHS Act, in which case

"first applicable fiscal year" means fiscal year 1995. The term
"outlet" is any location which sells at retail or otherwise
Wdistributes tobacco products to consumers including (but not
limited to) locations that sell such products over-the—counte: or
through vending machines.

(2:) The Secretary may make a grant to a State only if the
state, for the first applicable fiscal year and subsequent fiscal
years, has in effect a law providing that it is unlawful for any
manufacturer, retailer, or distributor of tobacco products to sell
or distribute any such product to any individual under age 18

through any sales or distribution outlet, including over—the-

counter and vending machine sales.

(c) For the first and second applicable fiscal years, the
State shall, at a minimum, conduct annually a reasonable number of
random, unannounced inspections of outlets to ensure compliance
with the law and plan and begin to implement any other actions:
which the State believes are necessary to enforce the law.

' (d) For the third and‘subsequent fiscal years, the States

shall do the following:

(1) The State shall conduct annual, random, unannounced

TI3074—9189

Friday, May 24, 1991

W

* The federal government’s increasing use of risk assessment in making decisions on
how to control pollution was the focus of Congressman Scheuer’s Subcommittee on the
Environment hearings May 21 on "Risk Assessment: Strengths and Limitations of
Utilization for Policy Decision." Lester B. Lave, an economics professor from Carnegie-
Mellon University, said that risk assessment methods adopted by the EPA often had
little scientific support. Witnesses called for the creation of a new scientific agency to

review risk analysis methods.

IN THE STATES

* The Minnesota legislature passed two cigarette bills before closing its 1991
session. The budget bill includes a 5-cent cigarette tax effective July 1; another bill
would create a subsidized health insurance program with a 4-cent cigarette increase on
June 1 and a 3—cent increase in 1993. Both measures await action by Governor Carlson.

* In Vermont, lawmakers have agreed to raise the cigarette tax by 3 cents in penny
increments through 1992. The budget package, sent to Governor Snelling, also raises the
sales tax to 5 percent and repeals exemption for other tobacco products.

* The Missouri legislature passed a $375 million education bill with a 5-cent raise
in the cigarette tax and a new 10 percent tax levy on other tobacco products. The
measure, which also raises the sales tax and adjusts personal income taxes, must go
before the voters on a November 5 ballot. Lawmakers also sent to Governor Ashcroft a
privacy bill that would ban discrimination based on off-the-job use of lawful products.

* The Massachusetts House adopted a budget bill after rejecting a proposed S-cent
cigarette tax increase. As sent to the Senate, the bill does not address tobacco taxes.

* In Alaska, the legislature adjourned without acting on a proposed 12-cent increase
on cigarette taxes and a tax increase on smokeless tobacco products. Also dying with
adjournment were a vending ban and sampling restriction bills. Lawmakers did send to
Governor Hickel a bill to put a smoking "warning" on signs currently required where

alcoholic beverages are sold, warning about consumption during pregnancy.
continued...

TIMN 0039937

Response to Comments Offered by Reviewer #2 in Connection with
I'Estimation of the Effect of Environmental Tobacco Smoke (ETS) on the
Air Quality Hithin Aircraft CabinsII

The following paragraphs respond to comments offered by Reviewer #2 in
connection with Manuscript Number E58601745.

Comment #1.

Reviewer #2 writes in the first paragraph that the data [contained
in our report] could introduce some solid and scientific numbers into an
otherwise emotional and political public issue. In the second paragraph
the reviewer adds that the authors seemed to be more concerned with

defending the accuracy and integrity of the analytical procedures than
with the conclusions that can be drawn from the work.

Response.

We agree with the reviewer’s comment regarding the emotional and
political aspects of the issue we investigated. We also agree with the
comment dealing with the greater concern indicated for defending our
analytical procedures. In preparing the manuscript, we anticipated the
possibility of emotionalism and politics affecting review, and
consequently we took great effort to ensure that our procedures were

described as completely as practical within the constraints of
maintaining brevity. ‘

Comment #2.

The reviewer apparently suggests that the manuscript discuss our

results in view of health standards or relevant toxicological
information.

Response.

While we are aware of the TLV for nicotine, we believe that use of
this figure for comparative purposes is inappropriate and potentially
misleading owing to its specific applicability for assessing exposure to
nicotine (exclusive of ETS) in industrial settings. To our knowledge,
the literature is devoid of information relating to either toxicological
or health aspects specific to nicotine at the levels we measured.
Similarly, information relative to ETS (at levels which may be estimated
from our results) exists only in the form of epidemiological studies,
the results of which are ambiguous and consequently highly
controversial. We believe that science is best served by discussing our
results only in the context of estimated exposures. It is our hope that

the results we report will prove useful to researchers investigating the
relation between exposure and dose.

vl.‘

t-

"Man:

70LA 62909

 

 

 

Over the past couple of months, many travelers have been faced
for the first time with a controversial and temporary new federal
law. It bans smoking on airline flights of two hours or less.
One airline, Northwest, has gone further, banning smoking on all
of its North American flights. While this law is being "tested"
until April of 1990, some anti-smokers are pushing for an all—out
airline smoking ban, and for removal of smoking sections in

airport terminals. After several months’ experience, there has

been a clear response.

Smokers and nonsmokers alike have questioned why a change was
made when the system of providing smoking and nonsmoking sections
on planes satisfied just about everyone. According to federal
records, complaints about smoking amounted to about one for every
million air travelers over the last several years. Public
opinion polls told the same story —~ over 80 percent of both

smokers and nonsmokers thought that separate sections were a fair

way to accommodate everyone.

Proponents of the change disregarded the fact that since 1971,
five major in-flight tests by both federal and private
researchers have concluded that the amount of cigarette smoke
detected in actual commercial flights is negligible, posing no
demonstrated risk to nonsmoking passengers or flight personnel.

The most recently published study (Environmental Science and

 

L140 99809

 

 

      

(:7 " 1 Tobacco Company. W W M %@:‘S [OH
HORIZON RETAIL CLERK PROGRAM wmmomsmemeo2ﬂo2
919-741-5000

WIN UP TO $60.00 INSTANTLY WITH HORIZON!

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company is pleased to announce a retail
clerk program designed to generate awareness of our exciting new
HORIZON Brand. More importantly, it will reward you with CASH for
helping us make smokers aware of HORIZON Kings and 100's.

Starting April 1, 1991, HORIZON buttons will be made available for
you to wear. In addition, we would like you to remind all smokers
--except WINSTON and SALEM smokers--to try HORIZON (must be 18
years of age or older).

It's simple and exciting to win!

Between April 1 and June 30, a HORIZON MYStery Shopper will be
shopping your store. All you have to do is be spotted by a HORIZON

Mystery Shopper:

1. Wearing your HORIZON button to win $10.00.
2. Mentioning to all smokers except WINSTON and SALEM
smokers, "Have you tried HORIZON?" to win $50.00.

And there's more! When you win, your store owner or company wins,
too! Because R. J. Reynolds will award your store owner or company
the same cash payment that you receive.

Additional HORIZON comments, should the consumer ask, are:

0 HORIZON is the first cigarette that smells good.

0 HORIZON has the smooth tobacco flavor that you expect in a
cigarette.

Also, be sure to give your customers one of the "Question & Answer"
sheets included in this package. It's sure to answer their
questions about HORIZON!

The Mystery Shopper will visit all the participating stores in your
area looking for HORIZON buttons and listening for you to say,
"Have you tried HORIZON?" These stores will be chosen at random,
but every store will be visited at least once--and most more than

once!

Join the excitement now and win up to $60.00 instantly. There's
plenty of cash for you on the HORIZON if the Mystery Shopper spots

you!

“We work for smokers.”

9829 ﬁLLOS

 

PROJECT DESIGN: 1997 91 Volume Promotion 1/31/97

PROGRAM OBJECTIVES:
Generate volume in ﬁrst quarter of 1997,

PROGRAM PRIORITY:
High.

TARGET:
There will be 4 different versions of this mailing. 1 and 2 will add up to 600,000 and be

made up of prior responders. 3 and 4 will add up to 1,000,000 and be made up of

Winston target smokers, including new and non-used names.

1- This mailer will go to 550,000 national ex Florida prior responders to bumper sticker
and/or smoking box. The mailer will have 3-$3.00/ 4PC.

2- This mailer will go to 50,000 Florida prior responders to bumper sticker ,smoking box,
and/or MM. The mailer will have 3-$3.00/ 4PC.

3- This mailer will go to 920,000 national ex Florida Winston target smokers. The mailer
will have 2-$3.00/ 4PC.

3- This mailer will go to 80,000 Florida Winston target smokers. The mailer will have
2- $3.00/ 4PC.

All expiration dates will have printed expiration dates of 4/30/97.

RESPONSE RATES:
Prior responder groups have an estimated response rate of 57%. The Winston target
groups have an estimated reponse rate of 35%. '

SCOPE:
1.6 million mailings nationally.

TIMING:
Week of: 2/5 W due.
2/13 Tapes ready
2/ 12 Film
2/13-2/24 Printing (2 weeks)
2/24 Mail Out (latest).

COMPLEXITY:
Simple tri- fold.

COST:
Total cost is expected to be $6 million

 

in
H
m
U1
to
q
0)
m
S

 

 

ACCOUNT MARKETING PLAN
HAND HELD RESPONSE FOR ALL ENTRIES IS: l-YES

CUSTOMER DEMOGRAPHICS

Marlboro Outlet — Primarily package outlets frequented by adult smokers under 30
years of age (CAMEL opportunity)

Menthol Outlet — 51% Special Market Traffic (Menthol Initiative)

Regional Outlet - 51% Special Market Traffic (Regional Initiative)

General Market/Package - Primarily package outlets frequented by adult smokers

(General Mkt/Pkg)

over 30 years of age

General Market/Carton — Primarily carton outlets frequented by adult smokers

(General Mkt/Ctn)

over 30 years of age

Note: All retail accounts (except D—52) will be placed in one of the above

classifications

ND OP RTUNI

Customer brand purchases indicate an opportunity for this brand. Brand opportunity is
identified as above average volume/$0M performance of listed competitive products or

Overdeveloped Branded Savings Segment, i.e., Bristol, Cambridge, Pyramid

Selected retail accounts may be placed in one or more of the above

RJRT brand.

. SALEM - Newport, Kool

. DORAL -

. MORE - BaH, Virginia Slims, Eve

a now — Carlton, True, Kent

. VANTAGE - Merit, Parliament, Marlboro Lts.
mug.

classifications.

PROMOTIONAL OPPORTUNITY

Value Added Account
(Valu Add Acct)

Direct Account Delivery
(Direct Acct Del)

Promotional Presence-Package
Outlet #1 (P.P. Pack #1)

Promotional Presence—Package
Outlet #2 (P.P. Pack #2)

Promotional Presence-Package
Outlet #3 (P.P. Pack #3)

Promotional Presence-Carton
Outlet (P.P. Ctn)

Temporary Dump Bin
(Temp D.B.)

Temporary Floor Display
(Temp F.D.)

Coupon Account

The account currently accepts prepacked
promotional product delivered from a value
added direct account

The account currently accepts unassembled
GRATIS product or premiums delivered from a
direct account participating in the Winners
Program

Package outlet accepts temporary promotional
package display (1 unit)

Higher volume/opportunity package outlet
which accepts temporary promotional package

display (2 units)

Package outlet with permanent package
promotional vehicle, i.e., preferred presence

(3 units)

Carton outlet with permanent package promotion
vehicle

Carton or package account accepts temporary
package dump bin displays

Carton outlet accepts temporary carton floor
displays

The outlet accepts carton and/or package
coupons

sate zsaos

glam]

DRAFT

 

Confidential — Pre ared for Covin ton and Burlin

 

g—Glutamine
CAS RN 56-85-9
Glutamine

CAS RN 6899-4—3

Abstract:

E-Glutamine has been characterized as a nonessential or
nutritionally dispensable amino acid but recent studies suggest
that it may be a conditionally essential nutrient, particularly in
catabolic disease states. As a flavorant, g—glutamine has
essentially no taste or odor and its main contribution is probably
in the production of "secondary flavorings" which make their
appearance in the course of oxidative or enzymatic action. These
so-called Maillard—type products are produced when glutamine
reacts with reducing sugars to produce substances with both
characteristic taste and flavor. L—Glutamine is listed as‘GRAS by

FEMA (#3684) and is approved for food use by FDA.

Few acute or chronic toxicity studies for E—glutamine have been
reported. For the mouse, an oral LD50 of 21.7 g/kg was reported

and for the rat, a LD 7.5 g/kg orally was reported.

50 _

566614.581.

‘iarch 9 , 109-3

To: Mr. J. G. Tobin

FROM:/4{ S. Kaufman

RE: NOW 100 FRANCHISE RISK STUDY

This reports topline results of the NOW Franchise Risk Study. The objectives
of this research were to:

0 Determine NOW's franchise familiarity with the brand's tar level. In
addition, among franchise smokers who correctly playback its tar level,
measure the relative level of dissatisfaction associated with increasing
the product's tar level to 3mg even though it will deliver more taste

and retain its "lowest" positioning.

0 Determine why recent new 100 switchers "switched" to other brands.
Should the primary reason focus on poor taste delivery (e.g., not enough
taste), this would further support the case for increasing the brand's
tar level from 2 to 3mg.

A. Franchise Smokers

 

Approximately 62% of NOW“s franchise were able to playback the brand's
current 2mg tar level. However, this number may be slightly inflated as
the tar level is written on the pack and respondents may have looked at it

during the interview.

Aware of Tar Level*

lm- tar 5.0%
3mg tar 1.7%
4—5mg tar 3.7%
Under 1mg tar 9.62
Don't know . 17.9%

*Ouestion
What is the tar level, in milligrams, of N0" 100 cigarette?

 

Although there is high awareness of tar content, increasing the tar level
from 2 to 3mg to provide greater taste delivery (while still being the
“lowest 100's")aEpears to Rose minimal risk to the brand. Only 13% of the
respondents claimed they would switch to another brand.

 

 

2809 thOS

 

I.

II.

GK“ DJD

MANAGEMENT SUMMARY x ‘ n n ‘
Rm SEBRET

; No. 225 By
Background History

REAL FILTER and MENTHOL were introduced nationally on 6/13/77, 48
months ago. REAL is positioned in the fast-growing Hi—Fi category
as the only major brand with "nothing artificial added" -- ‘
capitalizing on recent consumer interest in all-natural products

to differentiate the Brand from all other cigarettes. Based on pre-
market concept research, low "tar" and good taste are the consumer
benefits which make the Brand important to consumers. The Brand is
targeted to young adults, especially males, with emphasis on a rich,
masculine tone in advertising—~on judgment,distinct1y unique versus

the more ''clinical" pack/copy approach used by the leading Hi-Fi
brands (VANTAGE and Merit). Pre—market research indicated strong

and broad-based appeal for REAL, so it received very heavy intro-
ductory spending support to capitalize on this potential.

 

 

 

Business Review

 

REAL's performance thus far in 1977 has been disappointing. Shipments
forecasted for total year 1977 are only 66% of the original goal:

Total Year 1977

 

Volume $0M

Original Goal 3.64 bil. .6%

.Current Forecast 2.40 bi1.* .4%
(% of Goal) _ (66%) |

* Inflated by an estimated net pickup from retailers/
jobbers of 200 million units. Given a heavy initial
load-in and lower than expected movement, pickup was
required to balance inventories and assure fresh product.

Although REAL's spending in 1977 was at a significantly high rate
versus previous RJR new brand introductions, its impact was some-
what diluted by the national introduction of 19 competitive new
brand items (all low "tar") during the year. Importantly, Merit's
first year expenditures accounted for a greater share of both low
"tar" category and new brand expenditures than did REAL's.

REAL .
Merit July—Dec. 19777
Year 1976 ' (Annual Rate)
Low "Tar" Category
‘ Expenditures ' $208 Million $272 Million
Brand Spending $ 43 $ 48
Share of Category 21% 16%'
Spending (vs. Merit's 15%)
Share of New Brand 45% 33%

Spending

o

055: LLlos

 

Medizinisches Institut fur Umwelthygiene an der Univer-
sit‘at Dusseldorf, Abt. fﬁr Psychophysiologie

D—4000 Diisseldorf, Fed.Rep. of Germany

Results from a pilot study (I) as well as preliminary findings from an exten-
ded study (II) will be presented, in which either non-smoking students (I) or
non—smoking adults from the general population (II) were exposed to ETS produced
by an active smoker in a social, experimentally controlled setting.

Results frcm study I are based on 64 85 of both sexes exposed to ETS corres—
ponding to either 0, 2.5, 5, and 15 ppm dCO. Duration of exposure was 60 minutes
and CO was continuously monitored by IR—spectroscopy. Objective (eye blinks, la—
crymal flow, blood pressure, heart rate, and respiration) as well as subjective
measures based on questionnaire items were taken at 20' intervals. COI-Ib was mea—
sured before and after EI‘S—exposure. Significant effects of exposure were found
for blinks, lacrymal flow, COHb, as well as for most of the questionnaire—based
information. With the exception of the questionnaire—variables, exhibiting dose—
response-relationship, the majority of dependent variables showed clear threshold
characteristics: The ‘15 ppm-condition only was significantly different from the
control level. From this finding the tentative conclusion is drawn for a no—ad—
verse effect-level for ms to be located between 5 and 15 ppm, rather than below

5 ppm. (WINNEKE et al., 1984) .

In order to substantiate this conclusion and to gain information about the
generalizability of the annoyance-response a second extended study (II) was con—
ducted, in which the psychophysiological effects of BIS—exposure will be compared
to those of noise— and odour—exposure; this study is not yet completed. The 55 of
this study were selected from the general population living in noise— and odor-
problem-areas of the city of Diisseldorf. Based on a social survey covering 2300
individuals only non—smokers from extreme groups with high or low annoyance—
characteristics, respectively, were asked to participate in the experimental part
of the study. These were exposed in a social setting to BIS corresponding to dCO
of 0, 5 and 10 ppm. Apart from few technical modifications the set of outcome-
Ireasures as well as the basic experimental structure was identical to that of the
pilot study (I). Results based on the first set of 72 Ss will be presented and

Winneke,G., K.Plischke, A.Roscovanu, and H.—W.Schlipk6ter: Patterns and Determi—
nants of Reaction to Tobacco Smoke in an Experimental Exposure Setting
In: Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Idoor Air Quali—

ty and Climate, vol.2, 351-356 (1984)

680$ “909

. @CONHDENTIAL
Author: E. Tom Smith - . _January 2, 1979‘
piuision: -ProceSs Development ' L—Number: 12,774

' I Dated: November 16, 1978
TDM, 1979, No.: 2
Number of Pages: 5

Project No.: 2938

NEW PRODUCT EVALUATION FOR MRD
PARLIAMENT LIGHT 85's_
MANUFACTURED BY PHILIP MORRIS

 

gggECTIVE:

To compare chemical and physical analyses of Parliament Light 85's
with Parliament 85's.

SUMMARY:

These cigarettes were manufactured by Philip Morris and are from
the New York market. The two products appear to be very similar.

I

Emgkins gharectezisticy

The Parliament Light 85's smoke bland, except for some sweetness and
low tobacco taste. The overall smoking qualities are rated fair.

STATUS: _ _ »

The Parliament Light 85's evaluation is complete.

J”, jam M /~ //- 77
E. Tom mith Date

ETSzjcs

Attachments

y

OZ9n slnos

“ (1) CHELSEA

0 BRAND STYLE CONFIGURATIONS -

- 2 STYLES: MENTHOL & REGULAR
- 22.5MM CIRCUMFERENCE/98MM IN LENGTH

o DTS REVISED FOR NATIONAL LAUNCH ' NOW 1/02/90. V’/ﬁ

o TIMETABLE:

8/01/89 GO/NO GO DECISION ON NATIONAL BUILD
9/05/89 PRODUCTION START-UR/”
11/17/89 'PRODUCTION COMPLETE
1/02/90 NATIONAL DTS
0 VOLUME:.
392MM ,,' PER STYLE FOR LOAD/BIGIF/SALES SAMPLES

,-

(MAY BE REVISED WITH RESCHEDULED DTS)

0 NEW CHELSEA EMBOSSERS ARE IN WINSTON-SALEM AND AVAILABLE FOR
PRODUCTION.

0 NEW GDX-Z PACKERS ARE ASSUMED TO BE IN PRODUCTION BY 10/2/89
AND 01/02/90.

0 OVERTIME WILL BE MINIMAL WITH THIS REVISION TO MEET REQUIREMENTS

FOR CHELSEA AND MAINTAIN CURRENT BRANDS - BOTH DOMESTIC AND
EXPORT.

 

L88 I 901.05

0"

 

OSHA

The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), of the
United States Department of Labor, has issued a Notice of Proposed
Rulemaking on indoor air qualtiy (IAQ) and tobacco smoke. It would
impose broad requirements on employers regarding air quality and
the operation and maintenance of heating, ventilation, and air
conditioning (HVAC) systems. It would effectively prohibit smoking
in indoor public places. '

Smoking would be banned in restaurants, bars, private clubs, retail
establishments, office buildings, government buildings, bingo
parlors, bowling alleys, casinos, hotels and motels, sports arenas,
and every other indoor space except residences. It is the most
far-reaching proposed smoking restriction in history, and would
override every less restrictive state and local restriction
currently on the books.

It would apply to EVERY workplace, regardless of size, with the
exception of sole proprietorships (one self-employed person,
with no employees).

The only "concession" to the reality that 45 million adult
Americans smoke is a provision for smoking areas which is so
burdensome they are unlikely to be provided by more than a handful
of employers, if any. Smoking could legally take place only in
-separate, designated non-work areas, which are maintained
(ventilated) at a negative pressure-compared to surrounding areas
and separately exhausted to the outside. Further, no employees

could enter the area for work purposes.

In other words, they could go into the designated area for a
"break," and smoke a cigarette, but not to work, Thus, a
restaurant or bar could not have a smoking room in which food or
drinks were served, or from which dirty dishes or glasses were
removed by workers. Even routine cleaning of the designated
area/room would have to be done during hours in which no smoking
were taking place.

In other words, if this rule is allowed to take effect, there will
no longer be a single bar or restaurant anywhere in America (with
the possible exceptions of Indian reservations, the United Nations,
and foreign embassies and consulates) in which you can be served
food or drink while smoking a cigarette (or pipe, cigar, whatever).

8383 19939

 

 

MICRO MARKETING PLAN

Background ,: -7;
In today’ s environment, traditional mass marketing ‘
approaches with nationally oriented programs are becoming
less and less effective. This could be explained in part by
the fact that today’s smokers are far more fragmented in
terms of lifestyle and product wants. Smokers have become'
increasingly sophisticated and discriminating in their
product choices. In addition, the retail environment is
increasingly fragmented both in terms of types/number of
outlets and the goods/services they provide their shoppers.

The result has been an explosion in the number of brands 7
offered to smaller and smaller targets creating tremendous

clutter within traditional mass vehicles. Another result_is:l-

wasted resources. As traditional mass spending approaches
are used, significant marketing resources are wasted against
non—prospects in order to reach target smokers with a
substantial level of impact.”

The traditional mass marketing approach may become even less
important to the Company in the future for several reasons.
The potential for advertising restrictions has increased.
Restrictions may vary in form and severity by geography.
This indicates the importance of local advertising/media W"
flexibility. Retail marketing restrictions are less likely,
therefore making the point-of—purchase an even more
important advertising and promotional opportunity in the
future. 7
RJRT has merchandising and overall presence strength to be
leveraged in the retail environment. PM's efforts to
compromise this position is recognition of the value placed
on the Micro retail marketing potential. The power of
retail chains is growing, especially at the local level.
This suggests the opportunity to adapt/tailor retail
programs to exploit local retail opportunities.

A Micro Marketing approach to our business will provide RJRT
the opportunity to tailor national brand strategies to
specific smoker sub-segments based on lifestyle interests,
geography, and retail opportunities. 7 7

Retail outlets will be classified on a consumer¥driven
basis. Segmentation will occur as outlets are classified on
individual store purchase patterns.

Along with retail segmentation, smokers will be identified_
and segmented into homogeneous groups with something
important in common such as ethnicity, key lifestyle
interests, or geographical location. Identifying these

L898 SBLQS

 

From: The Second Surgical Clinic of the University of Vienna
Director: Professor Dr. W. Dank, Beitrage zur klinischen
chirurgie, Munich, 186:259-384, Nov. 3, 1953.

ME ON BRONCHIAL CARCINOﬂ

by
H. Denk

‘

During the last years there have been many papers on lung cancer. It is therefore,
unnecessary to review here consequently this very timely disease. In the following,
we shall discuss a few aspects of the total problem and report a few observations
which we have been able to make with the many patients of our Clinic.

There seems to be no question that the absolute number of bronchial csrcinomats
has increased. This can be further proved by a few figures. '

Gesell reports from Switzerland that the total mortality from cancer has almost
doubled (1.8:1) from 1901. to 191.8, while the mortality from lung cancer has in—
creased in the same period 20.7 times. In the United States in 1920, 1.1% of
all deaths due to cancer were due to a bronchial carcinoma, while in 191.8 the

figure was already 8.373.

The figures for the population of the city of Vienna have been put at our dis-
posal by the Central Statistical Office of the city. Total deaths due to cancer
have increased from 1931 to 1938 (21 city districts) 15.3%, and from 1939 to
1951 (26 city districts), they have increased by 16.7%. The deaths from
carcinoma of the respiratory system in men were 15.8% of all cancer deaths in
1931, 20.6% in 1938, and 31.76% in 1951.

For men and women together, the percentage of deaths from cancer of the respira-
tory system as a percentage ofthe total mortality from cancer was 8.66% in 1931,
11.92% in 1938, and 17.9% in 1951. The total mortality of the population of the
City of Vienna due to cancer has increased by one sixth during the last twenty
years; the mortality from cancer of the respiratory system has doubled.

In 1931., 1.1.0 people died per each 100,000 inhabitants of the City of Vienna due
to cancer of the respiratory system; for 1939, the figure was 584, and for,1951,
1,011.. These figures likewise prove that there was a much greater increase in
deaths due to lung cancer when referred to the total mortality due to cancer.

These conclusions, however, are somewhat limited by the fact that the mortality
statistics do not give' as clear a picture as a morbidity statistic, which does
not exist in Austria. It is certain that presently a greater number of other
carcinomata than those of the lung are cured, and those naturally are not in-
cluded in a mortality statistic for cancer. This argument against the mortality
statistics nevertheless, does not alter the feet of the absolute increase. How-
ever, we shall not discuss these theories in detail. Here we shall discuss only
the effects of cigarette smoking on bronchial carcinoma, since these relations
are“? great timeliness. We shall discuss this on the basis of patients in our
011 c.

 

‘ L6 L9 99l05

 

 

3/14/86 cc: DR. SOMMERS

Application #1916
Applicant: Joan G. Clark, M.D., Assit. Member — Divsion of Clinical Research
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center
. University of Washington, Seattle
Subject: Collagen Accumulation in Pulmonary Fibrosis

Reviewer: Leon 0. Jacobson, M.D.

She states that the central premise of this proposal is that hang collagen
accumulation depends on both collagen productive rate and extracellular deposition
of collagen. The experiment planned represent an attempt to identify the factors that
influence these pivotol steps in lung collagen acuumulation. Cultured lung
fibroblasts will be studied as a model of collagen accumulation. The plan wil _
be directed toward characterizing the kinetics of rat lung fibroblast procollagen
production, proteolytic processing of procollagen and deposition of

newly synthesized collagen into extracellular matrix. She plans as well to

study the regulation of collagen production and matrixformation and doing so will
examine the role of cyclic nucleotides and polyamines as well as the influence of
exogenous substances produced by bronchoalvelor macrophages.

Under specific aims she wishes to answer the question — What is the effects
of cell density on the kinetics of fibroblast collagen production and matrix
formation regulated and finally how is lung collagen accumulation regulated
in vivo.

 

I think her methods and proceudres are well written. The budget is not
out of reasonable range but she does ask for $10,000 in the first year for
permanent equipment.

I rather like this application.

Relevance: B+

Merit: A

Leon 0. Jacobson, M.D.

 

 

50255591

 

OVERVIEW: TEENAGE SMOKING ISSUE AND PROGRAM

The Issue

 

Most simply stated, the "teenage smoking" issue involves the

accusation that cigarette companies use sophisticated marketing

techniques to tempt youngsters to smoke, that children who enjoy

smoking are likely to continue and, as time goes by, may have

difficulty quitting. Ultimately, it is then argued, the years of

L;; Though the accusation is flawed in many ways, our critics use

it regularly with good effect. It is used as a rationale for
labeling and sampling legislation and as an argument for

prevention of use of live .models in cigarette brand advertising.

It was prominent among the reasons why cigarette companies no

longer advertise on radio and television.

The industry's response has-been clear but passive. In

_\_

publications, advertising, testimony and in other public

appearances, Institute representatives regularly state that

smoking is a matter for informed, adult choice.

An Advertising Code, aimed at discouraging promotion to
children, was adopted in 1965 though the voluntary agency charged

with monitoring adherence to the code was disbanded earlier this

year after several years of inactivity. The code itself forbids

,iﬂs ,_»_i.w , , . , we" 1,: .w . .M , l ,,

 

CONFIDENTIAL: ' ‘ , TIT/1N 0136813

MINNESOTA TOBACCO LITIGATION

 

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CAMEL SUMMER RESORT PROGRAM
"SMOOTH MOVES"
May 12, 1989

This executive summary serves as a synopsis of the 14 week CAMEL Summer
Resort Program referred to as the "Smooth Moves". The Summer Program, to be
executed on the Eastern Seaboard, will be somewhat similar to the successful Spring
Resort (Daytona Beach) Program with minor revisions and improvements. It is
anticipated that the "Smooth Moves" will perform 8 - 10 shows per week with
exposure in approximately 10 - 14 markets (depending on ﬁnal scheduling) that
represent a signiﬁcant concentration of targeted younger adult smokers. The
following information serves as a reference guide to the elements integral in
achieving successful CAMEL 1) brand exposure, 2) Smooth Character/ Smooth
Moves promotional campaign reinforcement, 3) extensive product trial sampling,
and 4) effective promotional entertainment while targeting the younger adult
smoker demographic (21 - 25 years of age).

1. "Smooth Moves" - Promotional Entertainment

The center of the Summer Resort Program will be a revised edition of the
Spring Resort Program executed in Daytona Beach. Utilizing the talents of
three attractive female entertainers and a fast - moving male emcee, the 45
minute live performance will consist of the highest quality pre-recorded
music (or tracks), exciting choreography, stunning vocal stylings, and
audience participation. The contemporary format includes recognizable
popular Top 40 pop and dance music - music relative to the targeted
audience and club attendee. Original lyrics add to the creative ﬂavor of the
performance while also supporting the "Smooth Moves" concept. Joe makes
his crowd pleasing celebrity appearance in the show's ﬁnale.

a. Audience Participation

A. Dance Contest - At one point during the performance, couples (who are
not "together") will be randomly chosen to participate in the onstage dance
contest during which the couples are placed in ONE pair of boxer shorts -
quite a unique dance style. The crowd chooses the winner and CAMEL
prizes are rewarded to all participants.

01
O
\l
N
A
0
Cl
‘1
(D

 

grow-Jinn.“

GRANT APPLICATION ms. 811;»:

Subject: Una S. Ryan, Ph.D‘., Papanicolaou Cancer Research Institute.
mm, Florida. ‘ ‘
Continuation application
"Endocrine Functions of the Lungs"

This is an imaginative proposal, with some preliminary work already accom-
plished to indicate feasibility,‘for demonstrating cellular localization of
"converting enZyme". This enzyme has been shown both to-deactivate bradykinin
and, contrarilv, to activate a‘ngiotensin I to angiotenSin II. Both of these
activities are part of the non—respiratory functions of the lung, which in this
instance is shown to be a hormonal control organ capable of affecting distant,
in fact general, function. Dr. Ryan presents evidence‘to‘ support her claim
that the deactivation proceeds in the "caveolae" of endothelixm of small
pulmonary vessels, and that this is a totally new mechanism of hormonal inacti-

vation; this last can be argued.

The methods to be applied are immlmocytochemical localization. For this
purpose special procedures of conjugating microperoaddase with antibody to
converting enzyme will be applied to specially fixed morsellated lung tissue i_n
vitro.

 

Critigue:

The procedures outlined are appropriate and represent an interesting
confluence of powerful biochemical and immunological methods. Oblique refer-
ence is made at'several points to smoking, and to other work on localization
of nicotine and metabolites to cells, also progressing in this laboratory. It
is quite possible that smoking may affect an enzymic deactivation process in
the lung of certain important hormones. This proposal in a way can be considered
as preparatory for such investigations at a basic level. It is, however,
unnecessary for actual practical investigation of converting enzymes in the lung.

A:
.{n/

Averill A. Liehow , M.D.
AAL/jp
10/16/74

'6 (”T/Q" 'ﬂrﬂ lav I”'/‘*’”’°”5
‘M( f ﬁsts/45,: W‘z/reévﬂ‘

 

Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and its sulfated congeners arenaturally

occurring adrenal steroids in humans and represent, on a weight basis, the
bulk of all steroids, other than cholesterol, found in serum. Blood levels
of DHEA follow a rising-falling pattern which parallels mid-life vigor and
senescent decline.

Clinical studies have shown that women who excrete subnormal levels of
DHEA breakdown products in their urine are at high risk for developing
breast cancer. Subsequent studies have also found that women with established
breast cancer have low blood levels of both DHEA and DHEA—sulfate.

The biological role of DHEA is not known. It was demonstrated over 20
years ago that DHEA is a potent inhibitor of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase.
This enzyme controls a critical pathway in the metabolism of glucose which is

important in the synthesis of fat and for cell reproduction.
- Anti-Obesity Action

In 1977 Yen et al. found that DHEA treatment of a genetically obese strain ,
of mouse prevented the development of obesity without suppressing appetite.
There was no apparent toxicity, and the anti-obesity effect was reversible upon
withdrawal of treatment. This may have been the first demonstration of a sub-
stance which reduces weight gain without affecting appetite. The authors
presented evidence that DHEA inhibited weight gain by reducing the activity of

glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, which resulted in an inhibition in fat

synthesis.

Anti—Carcinogenic Effect

The large body of very well documented experimental evidence showing that

reducing weight gain of laboratory mice and rats by restricting their caloric

l

 

.oea: ccmun as; maﬁumwn emanem Amuwe mumuoasmucou a saga .HJmm uow amuw can an pow twp ma mmmxuma
0:9 .muasamuw ommxumm vcm can: us; mxﬁa Oman mmHmE vac ummh qumN um:a vogmwwwsm :oummmou u>aumuuamsv ucwowx

.uuoxOEm mama «NI

.coazmmw maunsm m a“ moans can mummu wcwuﬁnsou co vwm200u,md coﬁuumuﬁw zaoo .azouw ammuma
usu cu wcaaammmm oumz mcoHuaomxo cum: xoma .nomu cw“: onu mo kuo>mm umsu voumwwwsm mascuw maven w>ﬁummuu

 

mg ou maﬁamoaam mum owmxowa can mean ¢zu<z ozu uwsu wwumuﬁvaﬁ ox co :uumummu maoﬁ>mum u<zu<z "mu<xu<m\mz<z

 

"oszuhmm>o<

.uuscoua muswﬁg zoemsz wuﬁuﬁcoz IWHW

V .ucuﬁn “cocoasooum 94mm
.«q.»oie\urbm.uwu , .ANV vcuan ucocanOUIn mm A<moo I
. . _ ;p,,\\\.mwﬂwv» .moamuoweaugao vuuvcwuu a a“ ucuap mm rappzmo I

I
l.» .
,_.—

"OH“ ﬁwumvd 800

maﬁa; muuavoum .moﬂ>um sumauuom egg“ was .xom mm .xommumom up you cmuﬁyﬁw maﬁa; mﬁuaouuau uuw uumuu unsuoum

:.amw;u= wcaumu«cseeou vdo>u cu vaunsm «a umae wuaua cu mucou0uuu .um>w3o= .muoxOEm

a cu wCaHmwaaw mg madam umaba a an wumuu coow mo coauamoaoga may .nouummmu u>auwuuam=u no vwmmm

.o «E a w ummcao
H UH U Afr?) N .3 . .vauw

ﬂ; 07w N

 

neuaaogm

 

"Hmmozoo

_ me<a pa oszx<ma _

\III‘I‘IIII'.‘

.AMhm mGHvSHuxuv <mlm~ .mmHmE,EEnw zz macaw ouonaumz mamuo> muwumm ”am<az<9m onpU< HUDGOMm

 

uwmy<o ﬂux

IIIIIII‘IIIIIIIIIIIIIII

 

 

"kum<8

 

umHHmSme

ozsoxoxo<n

I\\\ ¢_, . I m H mm . I
:2 ,I.,»; ,miq/ . .&u XL, L 2,L, ..t6n¢\\ ~m\qo u x m: u a
V." A
A m fcycnpv .qumm vcm.mmv vcmﬁn ucocoaeoo n I
.muzwad ZOHmzHB umamavoz I
.vcan mm wxzbzmo I
.mmmmwuoum nan mccmﬁn umou 30H um mcaxooa "mm:o<oxmm< A<oHooaoz:0mH
.Amuwwmzuusm xuma haﬁumeﬁumv mumonm came quwd
.Akucmuuo sumav vcmué mwcﬁ>mm 94mm van mm 55mm HozucuEIcoz
. vUC.A~.§ u
wu.d...YA$ Oak. .4, Cg I
m;.?czwv ...;L. «mom “mmom xi;
m2 Bowman; _. .

 

 

Fit/HI)

CLm; lymlr’é

[ha/’1; — ”fl/1‘14,

PROMOTED VOLUME
FLOW lNIOUT ISSUES

The issue of flow in/ﬂow out has created a long term
measurement issue with regards to retail promoted volume.

Simplistically, this issue is driven by the inability to more
accurately evaluate Regions'IDivisions' PV based on retail or
wholesale volume. Compounding this issue is: the dynamic
nature of volume as it is affected by the key measurement of
time; and the geographic location of direct accounts versus

that of their customers.

Ideally, available volume measurement systems should be
demographically speciﬁc, dynamic with regard to variance,
and inclusive of the total universe. Any shortfall in these . ‘
characteristics reduces‘evaluation to a poll versus accurate

and/or predictable data.

Current volume measurements issues are as follows:

0 _S_I_S_ - demographically speciﬁc, inclusive of the universe,
but not very dynamic.
. . AM - demographically speciﬁc, relatively dynamic, but not
totally inclusive of the universe.
. ELSA - dynamic, but not inclusive, and often not
demographically speciﬁc.

Current PV measurements are directly affected by the above
issues, and rendered inconsistent by them on a Region by
Region basis. Further complicating this problem iS the
selected methodologies available.

Specmcissues:f

81739 9171739

 

July 1, 1981'

LEAF PROGRAM COMMITTEE

_ MISSION STATEMENT

countability is:

The Committee's primary ac
d make appropriate

1. To manage all tobacco inventories an

purchasing programs.

r reducing the

Specific responsibilities are:

0 Monitor all leaf, scrap, stems, and dust inventory levels.
r overages and recommend

Identify potential shortages 0
programs to correct anticipated imbalances (e.g., blend

development projects, Stabilization/offshore purchases,

etc.).

1 leaf requirement yields and rates.

0 Review and approve al

0 Monitor all blend development projects/programs. Evaluate
and determine their effect on existing inventory levels and
future leaf requirements. Recommend leaf buying plans to
meet future product needs.

0 Monitor availability of various types and grades of leaf

worldwide.

irements based upon

0 Evaluate and determine leaf requ

- sales projections
- blend development/product trends

- leaf availability

— inventory levels
- alternative sources

and recommend leaf buying programs which meet the needs of
the Company's operating and long-range plans.

0 Recommend target levels for all leaf inventories.

tation of the approved leaf buying program.

0 Monitor implemen

hEl9 ElSOS

 

SUBSTRATE

SCHEDULED PROJECTS FOR JUNE 1985

D. Kay
1. Carbonyl Formation Study with B-3/TEG

2. Thermal Desorption Study includes identifying breakdown
products of B-3/TEG

C. Banerjee
1. Migration Study

a. Labeled study

b. Marumerized/Non tobacco substrate
c. Fuel Source, vs. moisture and density

J. Dengler
1. Develop process for washing/drying the substrate

a. Bench
b. Pilot

2. Develop process for uniformly/quantitatively add humectant
to substrates.

3. Optimize amount of humectant using HSC/with capsule length

B . Montgomery

1. Categorize all substrate with controlled working model and
HSC '

a. Wash/Dry substrate
b. Test: SA, Hg Pore, Density, Ash, Sulfur

U‘
n
m
o
0
no
0
b
m

 

COMMERCE COMMITTEE BILLS RELATING TO TOBACCO
ADVERTISING AND LABELING

Commerce Committee Bills Enacted Into Law

Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act (1965, P.L.

89-92). Legislation requiring warning labels on cigarette.
Sole referral to Commerce Committee. Hearings held (89-5
and 89-6) and Report filed (S. Rep. 89-195).

Public Health Cigarette Smoking Act of 1969 (1970, P.L. 91-
222). Strengthens cigarette warning labels and prohibits
cigarette advertising on radio and TV. Sole Referral to
Commerce Committee. Hearing held (91-25) and Report filed
(S.Rep. 93-103).

The Little Cigar Act of 1973 (1973, P.L. 93-109). Amends
the cigarette labeling law to include little cigars. Sole

referral to the Commerce Committee. Report filed (S. Rep.
93-103).

Comprehensive Smokeless Tobacco and Health Education Act of
1985 (1985, P.L. 99-252). Provides for public education

and product labeling concerning the health consequences of
smokeless tobacco. Commerce had one-day sequential referral

from the Labor Committee.

other Commerce Committee Hearings Held
(Bills Not Enacted Into Law)

S. 3118 (95 Cong.) -- to deter cigarette smoking. Joint
referral to Commerce, Labor and Environment Committees.
Commerce Committee hearing held (95-135).

S. 1929 (97th Cong.) -- To require certain labeling on
cigarettes and increase public information on health
consequences of smoking. Joint referral to Commerce and
Labor Committees. Commerce Committee hearing held (97-123).

other Tobacco-Related Legislation Referred Solely
to Commerce But No Hearings Held or Reports Filed

l
90th Congress -- S. 1803, s. 2394, s. 2395. All containing
cigarette labeling or advertising requirements.

92d Congress -- S. 1454 (to require FTC to establish maximum
levels of tar/and nicotine); S. 2869 (health warnings on

CONFIDENTIAL:

TIMN 294380 MINNESOTA TOBACCO LITIGATION

W

EILE ngxgdrkbé’ (WP

SUBJECT: D' i n in D m r 12.

The following was agreed:

1.

A KOOL CPT needs to be put into place as soon as possible
in order to gauge our recommended product against the grow—
ing SALEM Lights product. Linc Lewis and Herb Woertz
please liaise.

It was agreed to conduct group discussions with the younger
franchise smokers in order to better evaluate current KENT
films. Clearly, the smokers in the previous group discus—
sions were older than the smokers who currently are going
to imported American products.

It was agreed in principle to put a charcoal filter on KENT
Parent King Size and Deluxe as well as raise the delivery
to the 15 or 16 mg. level. Linc Lewis and Herb Woertz
please make a recommendation on product.

It was agreed to introduce KENT Luxury Mild 100's in hinge
lid format at Yen 250/280 in order to upgrade the image of
KENT and to compete in the growing 250/280 category.

It was agreed to focus our support towards growth in the
higher priced segments. Accordingly, Joel Silverstein will
revise the spend plan on LUCKY STRIKE to ensure that it is
optimal even if this means reducing some support on KENT.

Joel Silverstein will review the analyticals on VOGUE and
CAPRI Menthol versions. There are trade reports that
triers of CAPRI Menthol are returning to VOGUE Menthol, and
the region believes that there may be a product difference
which explains this. Prior to doing any CPT's, it is
necessary to get a full analytical evaluation. Linc Lewis
and Herb Woertz please do the same here and give us a view.

Joel Silverstein will prepare a plan for expansion and sup—
port of CAPRI for discussion here in Louisville. It is to
be here in early January.

A capital proposal will need to be developed for the sales

force software program. Joel Silverstein will have that
here by the first week of January.

632000720

July 13,

TORT REFORM PROJECT

1992 STATE LEGAL OBJECTIVES

The following is a partial list of tort reform

1992

issues that may be addressed by various state legislatures.

It is not a comprehensive list of issues to be monitored.

Alabama
- Preserve Contributory Negligence Doctrine

Alaska
- Change from Pure to Modified Comparative Fault

Arizona
- Change from Pure to Modified Comparative Fault

Arkansas
- Punitive Damages (Caps, C&C, Bifurcation, GSD)*

California
- Preserve 1987 Product Liability Statute
- Retain AOR as a Complete Defense
- Change from Pure to Modified Comparative Fault
- Punitive Damages (Caps, GSD)

Colorado
- Change from Pure to Modified Comparative Fault

Connecticut
- Change from Pure to Modified Comparative Fault

Delaware
- Punitive Damages (Caps, C&C, Bifurcation, GSD)

* See last page for key to abbreviations. The parentheticals

indicate the desired punitive damages reforms.

TIMS 0017565

 

,V.‘am ‘snr‘ j)’

cigarettes, they often change their smoking patterns113It «-**-

has been alleged that this is owing to "compensation" to 95

: won-‘4‘”..-

 

allow for differing nicotine contents of the cigarettes. @Ne
found that the amounts of nicotine produced from the NC and
the RC under human smoking conditions, however, were roughly
proportional to the amounts produced under "standard"
conditions. Our studies show that smokers smoke the NC
differently than the RC, since they take more puffs closer
together in time. The cigarettes are different from one
another in many respects, however, other than nicotine
yields. There is no evidence for compensation, as judged by

the amount of nicotine absorbed relative to the yield of

nicotine.

DE”) 22. Did you at any time notice smokers compensating their
smoking patterns when smoking the NC?

How one responds to a question on compensation depends
on its definition. If one defines "compensation" as the
smokers attempt to achieve a particular plasma nicotine
level concordant with his/her accustomed plasma nicotine
level when smoking his/her regular brand, when compared to
PREMIER, then we can say there is no compensation. The
smoker’s level of plasma nicotine level when smoking PREMIER

never approaches those plasma nicotine levels observed when

smoking the reference cigarettes. If one defines

compensation as an increase in the puff volume, we eah”gay”"

0208 89809

that there is no compensation. The data show that there was

 

   

REM "FORM FOR DEANNE ‘UITHW WYS

Hu- idﬂhgi (1:34.51. 3131 m o .

 

2..-

he a nenber so? a very select group of RJR enployaes working on e sensitive end
orit teal ‘ProJect for the tl’kinpany; you may 'becone’ 4he terget of «sons rather
csophisticatedi information iprobesﬂ- Bne unique and not ”connonly used nethod for
' outside «agencies to cat-her infornation that night not othereise hecone - -
available is #hy d-‘te‘lep‘hone‘ "survay" in fact there ere e "good neny legitinate
vsurveys “that are is.:on:iu‘¢:tev:i guy “telephone. aIiiur response.‘ us: RJR enployees. ’
sshould ‘be to never onsuer ‘telephone surveys legitinate or mét.‘ in fact sons
ilegitinate agencies night :even be used unsuspectingly for devious reasons.
-Therefore. us believe that you nay be well served by using the outline below
when contacted tor telephone survey infornation.’“1his fornat should give you
an opportunity to gather infornation on uho is calling you. By sharing this
‘infornation with your nanaganent. us can better understand “how to maintain
security all the say ‘to narket . plus get sone insight into what end aho ue
night have to deal saith. along the Hay.“

wr :1, :—.-.-.*. LWEP “"‘"- 5;"‘1’ 1“»2" Y”

1he questions listed helou should assist you to ”that end.-

i‘rw , “z. e -
V. E .~ .

1. how did» you happen ‘to get ny none and telephone minbsr?

Q. «that did you say the none of your ‘organizat ion has. .uhere are you located?
73. Who 'is your client tor :this survey? '- 3' -‘~ ‘5?

*4. What geographical area 'of the country are you covering in 87the survey? .

55. 'Cen 2‘you ‘tell he *hou this survey infornati-on will "he ﬂed? ”c

36. ﬁre you prinorily gathering your infornation tron corporate RED facilities?
‘7. Uhat Itinlimir confidentiality does your fire assure on this survey?
‘5- (11‘ a posi ' response is offered. est do they offer that in uriting?)
1’ n: .
‘18. l'n inte ed: in assisting legitinate causes that offer a true benefit to
-, b- say profs si n. “community “or eonpany. ‘but l'n kind of picky for uhon I
answer a vey 'uuestions. 'hlso I have ‘to attend a nesting in a few ni
to why don‘t you just drop your questionnaire in the nail. and I‘ll Its-H:-
till it out in ny spare tine. By the way. do you have a phone nunber
could reach you et? '
3,; - f"?! *45 .5' i5; 1'
If they do send the questionnaire. it is probably legitinate', but there is no

guarantee. Therefore. no request that you turn the survey form over to your
Management so that as nay review it further. “' ‘4‘ ‘ ‘~*-"“ *‘ ‘5‘" ‘~ = ‘ ‘-‘ '

,.:'. 5' .-;I./." “ 1‘ it'ﬂ.a’*§. ,1.“ £1 “a -"v'>‘w ~é’f ., Ei"‘n‘l'1’i‘!u c....;;3 ¢.'

1‘5” 84:63.: o. ”wt or -::~ 2‘: t. 3* in :4“ '1‘ ”mix; 13"" 3W thi 4 1 cm”:
n :ta: Lift} await; my ‘1.” or nine. LA": 3mg, 2 ram; no“ " 5m. viva «any image
‘ -‘!M.*ﬂ~*:zwt&ii “is out: i! you can t misﬁts» 5:21 ﬁevw’twgiat rift-Fa .,

y

La; 39: 2 L; r so ﬁh" so my“ :Lu ﬁ-p a~ on six: wag. 4“ o3351532591x.§:‘.t"-,i\':f“§-;i_"ﬂ"~.hl

 
  

(g at

lx‘fs éhtie‘ ‘hh‘ {“ﬂ'. v f “#333 '5‘3‘1ItV“

  
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

~‘i

Cl
L o:
'5

 

 

 

II.

III.

IV.

VI.

VII.

 

ﬂing”

PROJECT NN
(Alpha No Nicotine)

Sources of Nicotine in Alpha

A.
B.
C.

A.

C.

D.

Tobacco Jacket
Spray—Dried Extract (SDE)

Tobacco Paper Plug tkwguv
Tobacco Jacket #99 riéuwwﬂ
Denicotinized Tobaccos /;7 ¢7

1. Via Current "Denic" Process

2. Via Current "Denic" Process Optimized for Maximum [0(sz
Nicotine Removal ‘ 7bz @J

3. Spent Tobacco From SDE Process ”I,

Selected Tobacco Types, Grades, Blends {bfi {

1. G7NX

2. TB

3. Special Grades

Absorbents

1. Tobacco Paper Plug/Active Carbon

Reduced pH to Lower Nicotine Vapor Pressure

1. Levulinic Acid

Spray-Dried Extract

A.
B.
C.

I D.

Elimination of SDE

Substitution of Low/Denic Marumerized Tobacco

pH Control

other (More Remote Due to Timing, Feasibility, etc.)
1. New Process: Liquid-Liquid, Ion Exchange

2. Slurry of Tobacco Dust: G7NX, Denic Tobacco

3. Active Carbon, other Absorbents

MEP Modifications

A.
B.
C.

Cellulose Acetate vs. Polypropylene-’
TPP Additives
TPP without Added Extract

Longer Term Possibilities

Fl

Supercritical Extraction of Tobacco t'

Liquid-Liquid Extraction

Ion Exchange

Culturally/Genetically Engineered Tobaccos

Cavity Filters Containing Silica Gels, Active Carbons,
etc.

Air—Laid Tobacco Mat (KC)

Rate—Limiting Obstacles for Short Term

A.

Analytical Support for Nicotine Analyses
Preparation and Fabrication of Tobacco Rods (Vance
Hicks' Area)

Small Scale Tobacco Puffing

Fabrication of Models (David Jones’ Area)

Flavor Support

Advanced Product Technologies Staffing

Steve Jakob (Project Leader)
Gary Shelar
Carl Morrison

 

SSIP 86909

 

PROTOCOL SUBCOMMITTEE

Members: Spears

Norman
Michaelson
Oldaker
Grouse

OUTLINE OF PROTOCOL RELATING TO THE USE
OF AIR MONITORING DEVICE

I. Initial Calibration of Instrumentation
a.
b. Calibration of particle measurement devices
c. Calibration of CO, COZ,Nic.,dry bulb,air velocity,baro-

Chamber Calibration-RJR

metric pressure

II. Field Calibration Techniques

III.

a.
b.
c.

d.
e.

Zero Balance of instrumentation

Possible performance checks

Possible to use one of the particle analyzers (e.g. HAM)
as a secondard reference method.

Standard gases confirmed by independent laboratory method
Calibration of pump flow rates

Site Selection

a. Office space-

b. Public space

0. Placement of sampling device

1. Representative of space and people occupying the space

IV. Data Collection

a.

b.

c
d.

Sampling duration-1 week continuous during.period space

is open to occupancy
Ambient sampling of outside air-if CO/COZ is unusually
elevated during the sampling interval (Day one)

. Nicotine-as per RJR procedure (time-weighted)

Respirable Particulates (Gravimetric)

V. Maintaining Log of Observations during Sampling

900‘”

VI.

a.

. Sketch space
. Note number of occupants/cigarettes smoked

Note number of vent units and returns
Note sources of respirable particulates
Cooking

. Fireplaces

Humidifier

Air purifier (neg. ion generators)
Vegetation (source of C02)

. Open windows

OJUHbO-‘INH

Analysis of Data

Schedule
1. 2 hour increments-arithmetic,geometric mean, SD, Range

2. Daily integrated averages (arithmetic,geometric
mean, SD, Range)
3. Nicotine (time weighted)

QZZE OISIS

 

(4

Health Effects of Refueling Vapors:
The Health Effects Institute Analysis

by

Robert Kavet, Sc.D.
Senior Staff Scientist
Health Effects Institute
October 28, 1986

Introduction

In 1985, the Health Effects Institute published an analysis
it conducted of the informational basis for quantifying cancer
risks from exposure to unleaded refueling vapors, an exposure
that mainly occurs while at the self-service pump. Using the
National Research Council's framework for risk assessment, the
HEI analysis concluded that important information was lacking in
the three areas that lead to the actual quantification of risk.
The three are: hazard identification, dose-response assessment,
and exposure assessment.

Before proceeding further with details of the analysis, a
quick word on the Health Effects Institute. HEI, a non-profit
corporation, was incorporated in 1980, to "conduct or support the
conduct of, and to evaluate, research and testing relating to the
health effects of emissions from motor vehicles". HEI is
cofunded equally by the the public and private sectors, the EPA
contributing 50 percent and the manufacturers of engines or
vehicles certified for use on 0.8. highways contributing 50
percent. This arrangement was designed to minimize the
adversarial nature of the controversy surrounding the control of
auto emissions. In addition, HEI's establishment enabled the
industry to honor its legal obligation to sections 202(a) and
206(a) of the Clean Air Act, which were enacted in 1977, and
require that "after model year 1978, no emission control device

 

3906 ©8015

THE COUNCIL FOR mBACCO RESEARCH, s.U.s.A., me."
I 110 East 59 Street ’ 1 ' .

v- New York, INew‘ Yeti; 1092-2-
NOTICE OF RESEARCH PROJECT

V ~ p . GRANT No: 1575

 

 

 

 

 

 

I

. ruowcr nus: ‘ . — ——»—._._i

Chromatographic Separation and Comparative Metabolism of d— and 1—Nicot1ne. i

INvEeroAToa(s;: numme‘ﬁvuunv? School or Division _“ _ I

l

. !

John A. Thompson School of Pharmacy !

PEHFD-RMING OREANIZATIDN: ‘ memos Fun Tms may: —__ ._ i

Name and university of Colorado Start Date: July 1, 1983 5

Addresé= Campus Box 297 End Date= June 30, 1984 I
Including Boulder, 00 80309 Annual Funding: $50,000

zip‘ Code .

pnmecr summmr: .

Be brief—200 word maximum; (Include Objective, Approach, i
' , i - Current Plans -and/or.Progress)
Analytical methods will be developed to separate the naturally occur— §
ring stereoisomer l—nicotine from d—nicotine. Attempts to accomplish this i
will involve the use of high performance liquid and capillary gas chromato~ l
' graphic columns with stationary phases containing optically pure chiral ‘
. groups. Another approach to be investigated involves the interactions of l
nicotine with various optically pure chiral acids and separations of the re- . i
sulting diastereomeric ion pairs by liquid chromatography. ' A less attrac— .
tive possibility involves chemical modification of nicotine by an efficient.‘ l
nonstereoselective process to a species which can" be gconverted to diastereo~ i
meric derivatives. The resulting derivatives might be separable by liquid 1
or gas chromatographic techniques. Once suitable chromatographic methods ,
have been developed for the micro-scale analyses of d— and 1—nicotine,
studies will be initiated to accurately determine the degree of conversion
of the natural 1-isomer to its enantiomer during the burning of tobacco.

The comparative metabolism of d— and l-nicotine will also be investigated in
rats and mice following administration of the racemic compound. In addi~
tion, methods will ”be developed for preparative—scale chromatographic separ-
ations of the enantiomers of nicotine and mornicotine. I

 

50168370

a ﬁv<s muwccyx \_N nxs.¢ . ;‘ K . momum unm

. Awun}§&.tbksbrp
z>wxmamr>nm waxwoxzwzom

. %g?&»9xrabi an i\x

A‘TVD 3%} c. 99...?
E o E +2 emfxii

arm Qoammﬂwo Owamﬁmnnm MSQCmnHK Mm osmnmonmﬁwnmm UK Bommmwp< amowwswbo <0Hcam. wadmsmm

.ooavmdwnwo: mam Hmwwa osmsom “Z; amﬁxmﬂvwmom @Kbmawnmus!aarm ocmwman ﬁHmsmW| Swﬂsmmulmsm

1| ‘0' l lily!

ooanmavim uHoacnn Hwamiamawwmmm Halvmw©3|amﬂows oowm mam nmwomn Unmsmm mam .mwosds w:

PoznathHD;Mw<Hsom Unmsmmv HUHmmdm: Mam mdwwwﬂ< #0 moswm<m ﬁrm deOSQ msa UHmmwodeHm
Mmﬁswsam onosns. 85m noavma< Mm ooaawnnmm no ﬁrm osmwwmsowso nwmw om Odmsowso dammm
camoomunmvwm nﬁmdgm ﬂwﬁocor mmmmonw<m amsmomamsn 0m hmeUﬂDnﬁmminbm.m:Q ﬁrm mHHoomnHo: on
amﬁxmnwza Hmmocnomm. e

‘lpu...|.l.luqn¢ ill}; :Il.“i\|..‘.\,ll III x11: ,llllnpl..l|llul||ill
t.|(ll\|.lcil|\

mHW>HMQHO Hmwcmeu OCmewmowB 83m HZUCMHwK Hz 6mm SVwNmer>0m

 

ouaHaunm unwarcm>.m <orczm:vzu wwoccoa.:Hx ao uomHm<m emu wmocmeo awoza: Hz ocuvHam
mvwszmms Hzowm>mm :wwxme mxywm vau.mmzmw>em mczum mow mez<mma=mza Hzeo mawvammHo nozwyzn
mmmanmm. 3;s,tse;i‘z-;. :- a ,
mngrs

m6w>amonm ww00w>3m

 

\ O S>XHKHNM HEM <Obdzm OM 5H02IK>NQHZ Gown ww>zcm ASHZmBOZs myﬁmz~ O§va >20 dyzayﬂmv wK
yomwmmmH<MﬁK mHNMZQHEMZHZQ HiMHW OOZmCZMw >wwm5ﬁ.

H. nosnwscm #0 :mm m acmwln5HCMH BmHWmdwso mnﬂmnm©< o: OOHm UHmSQm"

I >503Q ocwﬁmdn mHmSOSWmmm‘ mnnmsoﬁdm:.memm.meMPhk man mcmnmw: nsm Uﬁmsam‘
Hmﬁom <owcam Ummmm nanocos UHomQImomHm Umooﬁmam no Qmmmsa momwsmn wﬂwom
memMCHm <cH5mHmUMHHnwmm.

lvléft. .n m§kt\
I >305© ooawmﬁwnw<m Uﬁmza maowmﬁm‘ amsmﬁmnm mmwmmwwbmlbwvbm nrwocos dmﬁomdma

wwooﬁmam SUMO? Hm<mﬁmam Uﬁmsg mnnmsonvm.

1am-

 

 

 

WNW». m%t0
mg 9%44644‘11/7” /ij’6 “(171.

Once a suitable smoking population is established from a careful review of the
questionnaires, the Subjects will be divided into two groups of 16 subjects each.
The first group will be designated Group A and will be made up of smokers who have
smoked at least 1 pack of cigarettes with yields of 1 mg tar and 0.1 to 0.2 mg
nicotine (note Gori used 5 cigarettes as a minimum). The second, Group B. will
consist of smokers who have smoked at least 1 pack of medium tar and nicotine
cigarettes. e.g., 7 to l2 mg tar and 0.5 to 1 mg nicotine. '

All subjects must be told the nature of the study being carried out, e.g.,
estimating the amount of smoking by measuring metabolites in blood. and that
the study involves commercially available cigarettes.

Randomization of 32 subjects within groups A and B into subgroups A1 and A2 and

B1 and 82 will be carried out as follows:

Subjects in Group A and those in Group B will be listed in alphabetical order
and assigned a number between 1 and l6. For the first week odd numbered sub-
jects will be given Barclay cigarettes to smoke and even numbered subjects will
be given Now cigarettes to smoke. For the second week the odd numbered subjects
will be given Now cigarettes to smoke and the even numbered subjects will be
given Barclay cigarettes. All subjects will be given a medium tar and nicotine
yield cigarette, e.g., Vantage (9 mg tar, 0.7 mg nicotine) for the third week.

Cigarettes

To insure representative samples of each of the brands of cigarettes, it is
desirable to pool all the cigarettes for each of the 3 brands needed in the
study, then randomize and repack the cigarettes in unmarked packs (except for
same code number that will identify the‘test cigarettes but not the brand).
Each smoker will receive an excess number of cigarettes, e.g., l pack more
than the amount listed by the subject in his questionnaire (to prevent running
out of cigarettes and smoking cigarettes other than those assigned).

9b?8 SITES

ArthurDLittlelnc

 

 

“1 INN-“i P“. R r Q.‘ i . _.-"):‘ ’ 'I.>:‘,\
Sféqigﬁ I if“ 3 E i4! ff anGﬁmta

. . ., . .1 Fun-P.“ e! f r: 539”"! (‘ ”Eng,“
”ET ‘-; .,..-;.¢' 0.: L‘UU .l \‘Uiiiu' a"!
Egsﬁé

ADnD': GTEE ONLY PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT PLAN"

Now.— 4-19 aysaf— ' R1137

“SECRET
Overview NOAQ- BYOAEEY! [ml-6%.

The Project SPA timetable, leading to test market introduction
9/29/86, is predicated upon finalizing prototype design and
completing flavor approximation and test design validation by
7/15/85 with product testing commencing 8/12/85. Standard
product testing methodology is judged inappropriate due to the
product's unique form and the necessity to maintain Project
security. Consequently, new test procedures have been
establishe to assist R&D's development efforts and to assess
productAperformance prior to market introduction. These
procedures will be validated (and evaluative measures
calibrated) utilizing conventional products prior to the first
round of SPA product testing. A “traditional" action standard
for "blind“ product performance cannot be set because of

product uniqueness (form and benefit) and the limitations

imposed by security requirements.

Product development efforts will concentrate on the
non—menthol style since capacity constraints will probably
preclude simultaneous introduction of a menthol version.

However, to the extent feasible, menthol development will

parallel the non—menthol product.

0999 lOSOS

 

ITEMIZED PROJECT COSTS INCURRED FROM JUNE 11TH THROUGH SEPTEMBER SETH.

MQCHINERY & TUDLINB.

1E.

11.

16.

3 Units, Elevator Feeders.
a. Manufactured by FMC Corporation.

1 Unit, End Reform Parts Feeder.
a. Moorfeed Corporation.

4 Units, Press Qutomation Systems.
a. Qrc-Trol Manufacturing Co.

1 Unit, DIS Electric Press Control System.
a. Universal Machine Co.

1 Unit,DlS Press,Ferguson Indexing Unit #2.
a. Unimation Systems (Spare Unit).

3 Units,Moorfeed Convertors,1&@V to 4BQV.
a. Moorfeed Corporation.

3 Sections, Vibratory Part Feeder Infeed
Tracks, Feeder to Press.

a. H & K Tool and Machine Co.

13 Units,Carbide Reform~lroning Die Sections.
a. Production Tool & Supply Co.

39 Units, Stainless Steel Wire Track Infeed
Blocks. (Slot Punch Press)

a. H & K Tool and Machine Co.

2% Units, Slot Punch & Die, Sine Key, Sine‘
Locator Bars, & Slot Punch Locator Keys.

a. Die Supply Co.

4a””“*m

126 Units, Assorted Die Springs.

a. Lee Spring Co.

1 Lot,1/4" Clear Plastic Sheet.(Track Covers)
a. Commercial Plastic Co.

2 Units, 6 Gang Slot Punch Dies E $9,31@.Dﬂ.
a. Danco Tool & Mold Co.

1 Unit, 9 Gang Primary Shell Die. (#8)
a. H & K Tool and Machine Co.

1 Lot, Shop Labor, Construction, Installation

of Air Stripper Manifolds, Piping, and Die
Debugging.

1 Unit, Rework DIS Press Indexing Star.
a. H & K Tool and Machine Co.

$45,mom.mm

$12,5%@.@@

$14,%6@.@@

$5,o91.mm

$E,5m1.mo

$1,643.ﬂ@

$695.@%

$735.@@

$2,3m1.oo

$146.19

$46@.@@

$41.9E

$18,63@.m@

sem,633.om

$1,337.4ﬂ

$495.@E

S092 20935

 

 

I.

 

SPECIAL PUBLIC RELATIONS PROGRAMS

Background/Situation Analysis

A.

Increasingly Important Groups

0 Growing Population

-— Blacks will number 35 million by 2000
(Currently 31 million, or 12 percent of
U.S. population)

-- Hispanics will number 25 million by 2000
(Hispanics are fastest growing minority
group, having increased 34% since 1980
to 20 million or 8% of U.S. population)

-- Hispanics will be largest ethnic minority
by second decade of 21st century

0 Political Importance

-- XX members of the Congressional Black
Caucus

-— xx members of the Congressional Hispanic
Caucus

-— 7,000 black elected officials and
Hispanic officials in U.S. today

? ééZé’ XX black state legislators

-- XX Hispanic state legislators

-— 46 House districts with more than 30%
black population

-- 15 House districts with more than 30%
Hispanic population

-- 35 House districts with more than 30%
minority population

0 More than 44% of black adults smoke, compared
to XX% of general population

XX% of Hispanics smoke

0 Strong consumer, legislative and editorial
supporters of companies that care.

"Retailers must understand that the

SILL 9LLO§

RJR CONFIDENTIAL

   

DISCRIMINATION E

    

OTHER. E]

   

SENSORY EVALUATION DIVISION
. v//’ oescmpnve [Z]

916
TEST REPORT NO.____ mAGNosm D

 
  
  

    
     

PROJECT: Flavored Triacetin Plasticizer
Study - WINSTON Light 100 Box

TEST: Non-Menthol Discrimination

     
     

YEAR or REPORT: 1987
no. or PAGES: 5,

      
  
     

OBJECTIVE:

 
  

‘To determine if there is a perceptual difference between the current WINSTON
Light 100 Box product and a WINSTON Light 100 Box prototype which has tow
item made with additional flavorants added to the triacetin.

  
   
  
 

SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION:

 

 
  

box material which had a high level of residual acetone. This product gave
an "off" odor upon opening of the box. The Flavor Division recommends the
addition of flavors to the WINSTON Light 100 Box tow item in order to mask
high levels of residual acetone, should they occur in the product in the
future.

   
    

       
 

Discrimination results showed there was no perceptual difference between the
current WINSTON Light 100 Box product and a WINSTON Light 100 Box prototype
which has tow item made with additional flavorants added to the triacetin.

  
     

These results show that the addition of the flavorants will not change the
perception of the WINSTON Light 100 Box product, but does not indicate
whether or not the additional flavorants would mask any "off" odors caused by
high levels of residual acetones.

  
       
  

STATUS:

 
  

 

Sensory testing of the products was completed on September 14, 1987.

      

Brands Development and the Flavor Division are investigating the possibility
of creating products with high level of residual acetone, in order to "create
the problem" again. Half of the prototypes made with high levels of residual
acetone will have no flavorants added to the triacetin and the other half
will have the flavorants added. These two prototypes will then be submitted
for discrimination testing. The hypothesis being that if the added
flavorants mask the "off" odor the products should be perceptually different.
This test would then be followed up with descriptive testing in order to
describe and quantify these differences.

   
      
      
     
   
      
      
     
   

KEYWORDS:

 

      

triacetin, discrimination, WINSTON Light 100. Box, flavors, plasticizer,
non-menthol, sensory evaluation

  

   

0228 85909

1980 Accountability of: Jack Bellis
Manager: D.W. Tredennick

Object: To improve the Copy Research Process in order to
prov1de better guidance for copy decisions. Two separate
aspects of this objective are:

l) The establishment of a Standard Communication Test

to serve as the primary research tool in ad/copy
development.

2) To review all existing literature on print
communication principles and ad research prin-
ciples in order to heighten user understanding
of why ad research is conducted as it is.

Establishment of Standard Communications Test

Accomplishments:

1) Design of test technique/methodology, including basic
questionnaire, through consultation with J. Coulson.

2) Experiment with test to identify strengths and weaknesses
and investigate any possible ad format bias (i.e., rough
vs. finished ads, product vs. imagery predominant ads).

3) Documentation of test to establish sensitivity, reliability,
and validity.

Results: A revised Policy and Procedure Manual for Copy Research
which will define the role of the communications test and the
role of the placement recall test in the copy research process
(i.e., developmental vs. evaluative research). The revised
manual will also provide detailed explanation of and docu-
mentation for the two standard tests.

Presentation to Marketing and Brand Research to explain the
communications test, to answer questions, and to encourage use
of the test in ad/copy development.

Timing:
0 Contract with J. Coulson for consultation By 12/28/79
0 Design test technique/questionnaire By 2/29/80
0 Present tentative test design to senior

Marketing/Brand Research for concurrence By 3/14/80
0 Complete experimental testing _By 9/26/80
0 Document test By 10/31/80
0 Review revised Policy and Procedure Manual

with Senior Marketing/Brand Research for

concurrence By 11/14/80
0 Release revised Policy and Procedure Manual By 12/12/80

9229 IIKOS

 

é.

Authors: J. E. Bodnar Date: February 10, 1988
J. N. Schumacher

Department: New product . '. Notebook Pp: 394319,
'-v . L Technologies '.~.' '..- 394320,- 394323 -- ﬂ
._ :. - ‘ ‘- . ‘-: f 394329, 394958 - 1's-
394960 -
Division: ' :AnalytiCal't I ' ' .' ‘Dated: September 8 -
. f . - October 7,1987.
-AM, 1987, No. Previous Reports: 2

‘ No. of Pages: 23

91M strea wamwmmw
B_e_en_eefr '5: mmmummgmmm
anduassﬁelectmueteetmn

QElEQIi

To compare the sidestreams produced by Alpha TM-G

cigarettes and 1R4F reference cigarettes using capillary gas
chromatography and mass selective detection.

1

s Y:'

The sidestream smoke (smoke from the lit end) of Alpha
TM-G cigarettes and 1R4F reference cigarettes were collected
using the Harris Total Smoke Chamber (see Figure 1) at six
sampling points: the upper chamber of the smoking apparatus,
two Cambridge filter pads_in series, and three methanol cold
traps. All smokings were performed under FTC conditions.,
Solutions obtained at each sampling point containing a known
amount of internal standard (quinoline) were examined gig
temperature programmed capillary gas chromatography using
mass selective detection. Visual comparison of the resulting
chromatograms showed the TM-6 sidestream to be considerably
less complex than the 1R4F sidestream at every sampling
point.

Quantitation of the resulting peaks (relative to the
internal standard) showed that the TM-6 sidestream contains
fewer components (96% less in the particulate phase and 82%
less in the vapor phase) and less total material (97% less in
the particulate phase and 84% less in the vapor phase) than
the 1R4F sidestream. A summary of the number of peaks and
total amount of material found is shown in Table I.

Interpretation of the available mass data produced thirty-one

8826 SL905

I“

BRIGHT CONSUMER TRACKING AMONG BLACK SMOKERS

EXECUTIVE SUMMQEX

BACKGROUND

BRIGHT is an innovative low tar 85mm/100mm cigarette positioned primarily
against menthol smokers. It is designed to deliver a unique new taste which
is fresher during smoking and leaves a clean fresh aftertaste. BRIGHT entered
test market in Michigan, Oklahoma, and Colorado on July 5, 1982.

Pre-market research has suggested that Black menthol smokers represent a
potential incremental share opportunity for the Brand. As a part of the test

market research program developed for BRIGHT, the awareness, trial, purchase
and repeat purchase levels for BRIGHT were tracked among Black menthol smokers
in the Detroit Metro area. The acceptance and penetration levels of BRIGHT

among these smokers should provide direction for possible modification of the
Brand's national marketing plan.

CONCLUSIONS

0 Sampling was the most important source of initial brand awareness and
trial for BRIGHT among Black smokers. Sampling may be particularly
important in generating trial among Blacks in economically depressed
areas.

0 Trial was effectively converted into purchase of the Brand. By week
fourteen, over one-half of all Black menthol smokers who had ever tried

BRIGHT had also purchased it. Repeat purchase averaged 37% over the

three tracking periods and appeared to be fairly stable over time. The
appeal of the BRIGHT proposition was strongest among females, smokers

aged 25—34, and those earning less than $15,000.

0 BRIGHT's unique taste appeared to result in polarized perceptions among

Black triers. The attributes most strongly liked were also most
strongly disliked, which supports other research results.

 

CURRICULUM VITAE

'Theodor D.Sterling

EDUCATI N
B.A; (CUM’LAUDE), 1949, M.A., 1952, University of Chicago; Ph.D.,
1955, Tulane University.

PROFESSIONAL AFFILIATIONS
Present: University Research Professor, The Faculty of

Interdisciplinary Studies and Department of Computing Science,
Simon Fraser University.

Previous: Visiting Professor, Department of Statistics, Princeton
University, (78). Chairman, Department of Computing Science, Simon
Fraser University, (72-77). Professor in the Department of Applied
Mathematics and Computer Science, Washington University, St.
Louis, Missouri (66-72). Alec Joint appointment as Professor- in
the Department of Sociology (66-68), and Visiting Professor in
Computers and Humanities, Hebrew Union College, Cincinnati, Ohio
(68-70). Professor of Biostatistics and Director of the Computing
Center, College of Medicine, University of Cincinnati, Ohio
(58-66). Previously instructed in the Department of Statistics,
’ Michigan State University and Department of Mathematics, University

of Alabama.

PROFESSIONAL ACTIVITIES
President of the Computer Science Association of Canada (75-80);

Chairman, Ombudsman Committee, Canadian Information Processing
Society (73-80); Chairman, President of Biological Information
Processing Organization (Ge-65); Chairman, CIPS Special Interest
Groups, Humanization of Information Systems (73-80); Chairman,
SIGCAS Committee of Information and Public Policy (72- ); President
of Missouri Chapter, American Association of Workers for the Blind
(70-72); Member of the Panel for Biology, Management, and Social

Sciences of the Mathematics Association of America (52-67);
Chairman, Committee on Professional Activities of the Blind of the
Association for Computing Machinery (63-71); Chairman, Ad Hoc
Committee on Accreditation, Association for Computing Machinery
(66-67); Committee on Radiation Dosimetry, American Association of
Physicists in Medicine (66~69); National Lecturer for Association

for Computing Machinery (72-3, 75-6).

Eg%TORIAL ACTIVITIES: ‘
Associate Editor - Canadian Journal of Statistics (73-78);
Editorial Board - International Journal of Biomedical Computing
(69- ); Computers and Applied Mathematics (73- ), Humanist in
Canada (73- ). - ‘

TIMN 0149948

w-;
I

Request for Proposal and Cost Estimate
Restaurant/Workplace ETS Study
March 2, 1988

Objective: To acquire carbon monoxide (CO), respirable suspended

particulates (RSP), ultraviolet particulate matter
(UV-PM) and nicotine data for preselected sites in
Washington, DC utilizing portable air sampling system
(PASS) technology.

Estimate Criteria:

1.

Four PASS units will be provided to IT Corporation at least

one week prior to mobilization and for the duration of the
study. ,

The Center for Indoor Air Research (CIAR) will provide a
written list of restaurants and offices to be sampled. The
list will include addresses and contact names.

CIAR will make provisions for restaurant/office access,
including written permission as needed.

Data transfer from cassette tape to personal computer will
'be performed by Lorillard, Inc. and the data printouts will
’ be provided to IT.

A minimum of 70 samples (35 restaurant/35 office) will be
collected over a five day period.

Ambient carbon monoxide concentrations will be acquired for.
at least 25 minutes prior to entering the restaurant or
office. '

Detailed observations (i.e. room dimension, number of
occupants and smokers etc.) will be recorded on a form that
will be provided to the sampling team.

A basic engineering/analytical report will be issued to the
CIAR. The report will contain a description of the field
sampling, analytical techniques, and a presentation of the
results.

9092 18909

PRICE ROLLBACK VOLUME ASSUMPTIONS

PM FP DOWN $1.50, AO $1.25. RETAILERS IMPLEMENT $1.25

0 TRANSLATES TO $0.10/PACK VS. PRIOR DISCOUNTING
ASSUMPTIONS.

o PROMOTION SPENDING

0 MARLBORO PROMOTES 10 BILLION UNITS ($100 MILL. @ $215
0 CAMEL 12% PROMOTED @ 52+ (9% DISCOUNTED @ $4)
6 NO OTHER DISCOUNTING ACTIVITY.

IN THE ABSENCE OF DISCOUNTING, SELECT SHARE FALLS TO .5%

SAVINGS MAM +$0.03lPK OR $1.50/1000 IN ‘95. '94 UNCHANGED

O RJR SOSAV IN ‘95: 35%
0 PM SOSAV IN ‘95: 24%

O BALANCE DIVIDED ACROSS A0

NOTE TO RETAILERS REGARDING INV. REDUCTION 2 WEEKS IN
ADVANCE.

STOP SHIPMENTS FOR 2 DAYS PRIOR TO DECREASE T0 ASSESS
WHOLESALE INVENTORIES

MCLANE BEGINS IMMEDIATE PAYBACK ON EXCESS INVENTORY
N0 PRICE INCREASES IN ‘95
FET ASSUMPTIONS UNCHANGED

SET ASSUMPTIONS UNCHANGED

 

vvez 6L6?g

COMMUNICATING ON THE ISSUES

IN 1975, THE TOBACCO INSTITUTE DECIDED TO TRY A
LITTLE EXPERIMENT. OVER THE PREVIOUS DECADE, WE HAD BEEN
BATTERED BY THE MEDIA. THE SURGEON GENERAL’S REPORT OF 1964 HAD
BEEN BIG NEWS. OUTISDE OF THE MAJOR MEDIA IN WASHINGTON, D.C.
AND NEW YORK CITY, OUR RESPONSE HAD BEEN MUTED. BUT THAT CHANGED
WHEN A GROUP OF INSTITUTE EXECUTIVES HIT THE ROAD AND CONDUCTED

MEDIA BREIFINGS IN A SERIES OF CITIES AROUND THE COUNTRY.

WHAT WE FOUND WAS GRATIFYING. WE LEARNED THAT THE
MEDIA WERE GENUINELY INTERESTED IN WHAT WE HAD TO SAY. THEY WERE
HUNGRY FOR NEWS FROM "THE OTHER SIDE." WHAT THEY HAD GOTTEN
BEFORE WAS GENERALLY EITHER FROM THE NETWORKS OR WIRE SERVICES.
FEW HAD HAD ANY PERSONAL CONTACT WITH A TOBACCO INDUSTRY
REPRESENTATIVE. THEIR REPORTING ON OUR BRIEFINGS WAS GENERALLY
FAIR. THAT LEAD US TO CONCLUDE THAT WE NEEDED SOME FULLTIME,
PROFESSIONAL COMMUNICATORS ON THE STAFF TO CONTINUE CARRYING THE

MESSAGE AROUND THE COUNTRY.

LATER IN 1975, TWO SUCH PEOPLE WERE HIRED. THE
NEXT YEAR, OUR COMMUNICATIONS COMMITTEE ENDORSED AN EXPANSION OF
THE PROGRAM AND TWO MORE COMMUNICATIONS PROFESSIONALS CAME ON
BOARD. THAT IS WHEN I JOINED TI. SINCE THEN, WE HAVE TRAVELED

HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF MILES, CONDUCTED THOUSANDS OF

TI1674—0794

 

- W5”; x 1m / m a, 3,7,“ {M .
14‘. ? Attaihment] Whﬂkﬁd ‘féw H‘JK' DAM
_ WWWW Maw Mme/f P

Forschun svorhaben

 

Ausarbeitung eines Radioimmunoassays zur
Bestimmung von Nikotin und Cotinin im Urin

von Rauchern und Nichtrauchern.

1) Problematik

Als MeBparameter zur Bestimmung der Rauchaufnahme bei Rauchern und

Nichtrauchern (Passivrauchern) werden Nikotin und einer der Haupt-

metaboliten von Nikotin, Cotinin, in Kﬁrperflﬂssigkeiten gemessen.

Die Analyse erfolgt 1.a. mittels Gaschromatographie (GC) und
Radioimmunoassay (RIA). Beide Methoden sollten natﬂrlich vergleichbare

Ergebnisse liefern.

Von verschiedenen Arbeitsgruppen wurde ein Methodenvergleich RIA - GC
durchgefuhrt. Gritz et a1 (1) bestimmten Nikotin sowie Cotinin 1n Serum
mit Hilfe von GC und RIA. Schievelbein et a1r(2) verglichen Serum-Herte
von 199 Probanden mit den 2 Hethoden. Hie 1n Tab.1 zu sehen, ergab sich
eine befriedigende Korrelation der beiden Methoden, was Serum anbelangt.

”~l Thb.1 Bestimmung von Nikotin und Cotinin 1n Serum

Korrelation zwischen RIA und GC

___________________________________________________________________
Korrelationskoeffizient

Autor Substanz n
M
Gritz et al . Nikotin 9 0.95
1
( ) Cotinin 19 0,9“
Schievelbein Nikotin 162 o .76
7e? 31 (2’ , Cotinin. 19“ 9.98 .w I
l.“— «R
0'1
a

e "‘
-._.Q'.».

Md
0: ,
'W
to

 

 

 

THE DAILY BULLETIN.

.THE DAILY BULLETIN...THE DAILY BULLETIN
STATE ACTIVITIES DIVISION. .THE TOBACCO INSTITUTE
Monday

. June 20,1988

-.v

.......................... u.IN REVIEW.............................

After rejecting cigarette and OTP tax increases in both House and
Senate cmtes Friday, WEST VIRGINIA Iegisiature recessed speciaI

SESSION.

..wiII resume work 6/27.

MASSACHUSETTS HouSe Mays & Means Cmte has scheduIed executive

session for Tuesday to vote on H4188, workaace smoking poIicies
..and H5198, requiring MASSACHUSETTS BAY TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY

to maximize non—farebox revenues...couId force MBTA Board to reIax
current ban on tobacco advertising in faciIities.

.............. THE 7-DAY FORECAST: 6/20/88 -- 6/28/88..............
...On the Floor... _ A

Mon 6/20

Tue 6/21V

Wed 6/22

Thu 6/23

1 Fri 6/24
Mon 5/27

V Tue 6/28

LA H164/H1965
LA H914/H1966
LA HCR146'

MA H2681

MA S42 6/20
MA 51715

MI S698

MI S739

MI S740

MI S741

MI S742

MI S793

NY A262

LA 8546

San Frantisco CA
San Francisco CA
San Leandro CA
CharIottesviIIe VA

*MA H4188

'*MA.H5198
1 Sacramento CA

Aurora CO
TI FieId Staff Mtg

NY A5135

v FIagstaff AZ

TI FieId Staff Mtg

...For further information.

House: Mnrs

House: Sp—mnrs

House: RsItn-anti—tobacco
House: Ad-smkIss "warnings"
Senate: Sp-ban

Senate: Insurnce

House: SR-day care

House: Ad-smkIss wrngs
House: Mnrs—signs

House: SR-enfrcmnt

House: SR- hIth fac

House: SR- rstrnt

Assny: SR pnIty

SCmte hng: SR-wkp

Fina] vote: Sp-ban

CncI hng: SR-pub

CncI hng: SR- -wkp/rstrnt/pub

F1naI vote: SR- wkp/rstrnt/pub _

 

HCmte vote: SR wkp '
HCmte Vote: Ad MBTA poIicy
Cn c1 hng: Mnrs- -pn1ts

Fina] vote: SR- repeal wkp
N0 DAILY BULLETIN

 

ACmte vote. Sp- ban
CthCmte hng: SR- Wkp/rStrnt/pub
NO DAILY BULLETIN "V V

 

 

.caII State Act1v1t1es Div151on

988T 89809‘

 

 

HKé0037GEB

I ANALYSIS OF THE GASEOUS PHASE 0F CIGAREITE SMOKE

A number of anﬂyses were performed on the gaseous components
of tobacco smoke during the first half‘oi‘ the twentieth century,
but it was not until the 1950’s, when the availability and wide-
spread use of more sophisticated quantitative instrumentation-made
it possible to determine very minute concentrations, that the major
centribution concerning the vapor phase composition appeared in

print. Until this time, the emphasis had been placed on the

particulate matter of cigarette smoke, which comprises little more

than one-twentieth of the whole smoke.

The analysis of cigarette smoke, composed of atmospheric

gases and a complex mixture of substances derived from the combus-
tion and pyrolysis of tobacco, poses a difficult problem. For
purposes of analysis, it is convenient to separate these substances
into a particulate phase and a gaseous phase. Severﬂ 5:5: filteriné
materials have been reported that remove over 99 per cent of the
smoke particulate matter. However, a glass fiber filter medium,

Cambridge filter No. Chi-115 [Cambridge Filter Corporation, Syracuse,
New York],- most nearly meets the requirements for quantitative
studies. This filter, originally studied_by Hartman, Cogbiil and
Harlow [31], removes about 99.8 per cent of the particulate phase
and has the added advantage of a high loading capacity without

developing a resistance to air flow sufficient to alter the puff

 

ADOPTED AMENDMENTS TO MA H. 5000
(Budget Appropriations Bill)

Rep. Stoddart of Natick moves to amend H. 5000 by adding at the end thereof'the
following section:

SECTION No tobacco product sold within the Commonwealth shall contain
nicotine after the year 2002.

Any retail or wholesale business which offers for sale a tobacco product
containing nicotine shall be deemed to have committed a civil infraction
punishable by the Attorney General’s ofﬁce by Administrative process. A First
offense is punishable by a ﬁne of $l00 and subsequent offenses are punishable by

a ﬁne of $250.

Rep. Stoddart of Natick moves to amend H. 5000 by adding at the end thereof the

following section:

SECTION All tobacco products offered for sale in the Commonwealth shall,
after the year 2002, list on the exterior of their package evely chemical and/or

substance contained within said tobacco product.

89139 @ZETS

 

SEDRPT03 SENSORx EVALUATION TEST REQUEST NO. 1302 Page 1
11:47:19.7 11/09/90

Project Name: XA/QC PROTOTYPE Program No. : 222
CHARACTERIZATION - PETS
VISITOR EVALUATION

Requested by: Daniel B Kurtz Request Date: 11/08/90
SED Proj Leader: Daniel Kurtz
Prod Location: SEE DESCRIP Make Date: 11/01/90

Results Needed: 12/20/90
Test Objective:

To determine if there are differences in how visitors erceive machine
generated ETS from eight different products (a convent onal product,
six XA prototypes, and one QC prototype).

The results from this test will provide the X5 project with product development
direction.

Product Descriptions:

PDO4009-AB - CAMEL LIGHTS 85 product.

PDO3886-AB - XA prototype with 30% charcoal inner wrap, 6 Coresta CMC
outer wrap and CAMEL Lts. blend.

PDO3988—AA - XA prototype with 50% charcoal inner wrap, 3 Coresta outer
wrap (TOD5560) and CAMEL Lts. blend.

PDO3988-AB - XA prototype with Tobacco inner wrap, Ecusta TOD5504 outer
wrap and CAMEL Lts. blend.

PDO4022-AB - XA prototype with tobacco inner wrap with 6% cutrate, K-C CMC
outer wrap and CAMEL Lts. blend.

FL900254-AA - XA prototype with 2 Coresta CMC paper, 70% CAMEL Lts. blend with
97-B filer (G7 process, tobacco/charcoal/CaCo3).

FL900266-AB - XA prototype with Ecusta 5560 paper, 50% CAHEL Lts. blend with
cast sheet filler containing 70% tobacco and 30% charcoal.

CT02119—AD - QC prototype with Ecusta 5505 paper (30% CaCOS, 11% magnesium
hydroxide, 6% KCl, 6% potassium malate, 2 malic acid, and
2.5% irritation reducer) and CAHEL Lts. 85 blend.

Products will be smoked at a rate of 10 per hour from 9:00 am until 11:30 am.
Chambers will be set at four air changes per hour on the day before testing.
Products will be conditioned prior to testing.

Testing Methodology:
Panel: PETS VISITOR TESTING OF TBC ETS FROM SMOKING MACH. (DESCRIP)
Total Resources Required: 96.00 man hours.
Amount used so far: 10.00 man hours

01
H
H
O
U!
N
0)
\l
KO

 

/

. - ' HILLAND KNOWLTON

9‘

DISCUSSION TOPICS
Project "Q"

October 14, 1987

0 Team Hill and Knowlton with Young & Rubicam I ’2
-— Pool information 2;? ' \ﬁd‘
-- Combine resources , W
-- Share information

0 Examine consumer research A

4- Focus groups ij§y

-- Market research 4f
-- Outside—third party research V¢p

-- Additional research

0 Media relations

—— Building bridges
-- Maintaining contact

-- Following reporters following RJR
o STEA Concerns
o MediaCom

0 Washington Outreach -~+

9S9L'St9OS

 

CAMEL SIGNIFICANT ACTIVITIES REPORT
Week of 3/12/84

 

1) Focus groups were conducted in Dallas, TX last week to assess
consumer reaction to CAMEL's recently approved Style Awareness
and Relatability advertising approaches. A total of five
groups were conducted among both male and female 18—34 year
old competitive smokers. Overall, consumer reaction to both
advertising approaches was very positive, and both were
effective in communicating their intended messages. The
focus groups also generated discussion of consumers‘ current
perceptions about CAMEL and confirmed the need for increasing
overall brand style awareness. A full report of findings
from these groups will be forwarded the week of 3/19.

2) The CAMEL team Positioning Process Hypothesis Development
meeting was held on 3/14 at the Graylyn Conference Center.

This meeting served as the initial stage of development for
reassessment of the brand‘s current positioning as defined
by MDD's new positioning process. As next steps, MDD will
specifically investigate each hypothesis generated using
available data sources. Their findings will be presented
to the brand team in April, after which implication to the
brand's current positioning will be assessed.

RST/ga
3/15/84

EELS 9l60§

- Saturday, April 16, 1994
'The McLaughlin Group": Political Discussion
Transcript ID: 1061714 (851 lines)

THE MCLAUGHLIN GROUP
HOST: JOHN MCLAUGHLIN

JOINED BY: FRED BARNES, ELEANOR CLIFI',
CLARENCE PAGE, AND MORTON KONDRACKE

TAPED FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 1994
AIRED THE WEEKEND OF APRIL 16-17, 1994

ANNOUNCER: From the nation’s capital, the McLaughlin Group, an
unrehearsed program presenting inside opinions and forecasts on major
issues of the day. Sponsored by GE. "GE: from power generation to
medical systems. At GE, we bring good things to life."

Here’s the moderator, John McLaughlin.

*****

END OF REGULAR SEGMENT

*****

PBS SEGMENT FOLLOWS

MR. MCLAUGHLIN: Issue three: "Up in Smoke." Congress waged an
all-out war against tobacco companies this week. Henry Waxman,
Democrat of California. major smoking foe, and other members of his
subcommittee grilled chief executives from the seven largest tobacco
companies. Here's an exchange with Congressman Ron Wyden, Democrat of
Oregon, and those CEOs.

REP. RON WYDEN (D-OR): (From videotape.) Yes or no, do you
believe nicotine is not addictive?

JOSEPH TADDEO (President, US Tobacco Company): (From
videotape.) I don't believe that nicotine or our products are
addictive.

ANDREW TISCH (Chairman and CEO, Lorillard Tobacco Company):
(From videotape.) i believe nicotine is not addictive.

TIMN 431524

 

II.

III.

IV-V

VI.

O—O-H MARKET RIDE - MINNEAPOLIS/ST. PAULz MINNESOTA ,

JANUARY 29, 1975

MARKET BACKGROUND

A. Ranking - 15

B. 1.73% U.S. Pop.

C. Winston Share L Sept. Qtr. 13.73 Marlboro Share + Sept. Qtr. 22.98
June Qtr. 14.07 June Qtr. 20.64

CURRENT WINSTON POSTING DATA

A. 30-Sheet - 6 months @ 100 (current)

Paint - 9 Rotary
1 Permanent’

 

LATEST MARLBORO POSTING DATA (EST. 1974 ACTIVITY)
A. 30-Sheet - 12 months @ 100

Paint - 9 Rotary
2 Permanent

 

GENERAL COMMENTS/FINDINGS

The O-O-H medium was dominanted by Winston with Marlboro being just "barely
visible" (only 3 paints were observed in the marketplace). While Marlboro
did have some paints at key access roads, they had no 30-sheet showing at
all. This may be in part due to the fact that they frequently alternate
showings with Benson & Hedges and it was not their month to be up.

Our paints had good locations andin combination with our 30 sheet showing
gave us great impact in the market.

Two other brands, Old Gold Box and Lark also had significant showings in the
market (both 30-sheet & paints) while Pall Mall Gold, Benson & Hedges, Kent
and L&M had "minor" showings.

CONCLUSIONS

while Marlboro did not appear to be a significant factor in the 0-O-H medium
at this particular point in time, they nonetheless enjoy almost a 23% share
of market vs our 13.7. Because they are doing so well in this markeg they
may have diverted funds into other less developed areas. If we could in-
crease the length of our 30-sheet showing from 6 to 12 months, we might be
able to increase our share in'this traditionally strong Marlboro market.

a

9029 CLOOS

NICOTINE PREDICTION MODEL

 

A statistical computer model would show how much Nicotine will be in
our cigarettes after 2 years aging based on Nicotine in the tobacco
crop, our purchase pattern, the effects of aging, cigarette design
parameters (paper porbsity, filter density, etc.), tobacco processing’

(2 G7, 2 Gi3, Ammoniatlon, de-nic, etc.), and blending (Z grades, belts,
tobacco types, etc.).

We are now printing on some of our packages the amount of Nicotine in

the cigarettes contained. Thus it becomes necessary to manufacture

cigarettes to a Nicotine specification. This has resulted in a

substantial reject problem in manufacturing. For example, a large

number of NOW cigarettes have been recalled from the field due to

excessive Nicotine.

The amount of Nicotine in the smoke of a cigarette depends on many

things:

Nicotine in the Tobacco crop
X-Grades

Str-Grades
Off shore

Purchase Pattern
2 X-Grades

2 Straight Grades
2 Off Shore

Effects of Aging
Nicotine Loss due to Sweats

8919 LGZIS

 

 

 

7m"

,_3

...,-~‘~.m~:~r 77“'~"§‘?'.1'7"." ~ 2 ur

-'" isoktcbtosv”5iuuiesrou”sis"

This note describes approaches to evaluate the toxicology of Environmental
Tobacco smoke (ETS), using exposures of laboratory animals to sidestream smoke
(855) and mainstream smoke (M88). I have not taken into consideration any in
xiiﬁg genetic toxicology, in that I think the testing should be on whole smoke
and not on condensate. The animal work can be divided into 2 main areas '

.

- whole—body exposures of animals to 838, and a comparison of the responses
obtained with those obtained in animals exposed to room air.

- nose-only comparisons of M88 and 588 (at equi-TPM presentations)

In addition to the work on the "specific activity“ of ETS, I believe that the
animal work should reflect those problems with ETS which the public conceive as
being important. These include a cumulative “irritancy” (important both to the
smoker and to the non~smoker), pulmonary carcinogenesis, and reproductive
effects. There is also concern about the levels of nicotine and

carboxyhemoglobin seen in non-smokers as a result of their exposure to SSS.»

Finally, there seems to be recent evidence implicating immunosuppression in
young children who are exposed to ETS.

The approach of exposing animals whole-body to 888 requires careful
consideration. The doses suggested by the EPA as being the likely additive
contribution of ETS to generalized air pollution (25ug per cubic meter) are
very small indeed, and it could take technical skill to generate consistently
such an aerosol for animal exposures. The levels are low enough to be within
the noise levels of detectign, and may be impractical for inhalation work (n.b.
the doses are around one eighty-thousandth of the doses used routinely in our
comparative inhalation studies with MSS). Assuming that such 885 levels are
technically feasible, it is important to define against what TPM level this 888
concentration would be compared. It is clear that HEPA-filtered air with
egfectively zero TPM will have no effect on rats. Any 888 concentration will
appear as being biologically more active than this Control. There is thus no
possibility of determining a NOEL using this approach. h better approach would
be to compare 888 with ambient TPN levels found in a standard room with
standard ventilation : current evidence shows that such rooms could reasonably
Be éisecfea’to héVé’TPﬁ concentrations of around ’100 ug/m3. This should be
the control exposure level.‘

Notwithstanding the above, whole-body exposures to 989 could be achieved,
possibly by using very large chambers, only a small number of cigarettes, very
high dilution rates, and long exposures (e.g. 20h/d). The-technical problems
associated with such exposures are manifold, the most important probably being
the lack of dosimetry data (the same problems exist for monitoring exposure to
$56 in animals as exist for man). This is exemplified by the very low doses
suggested : a doubling of the baseline level of blood carboxyhemoglobin
resulting from endogenous production. This simple doubling would be very
difficult to measure reproducibly. Us are not sure at the moment if plasma
nicotine can be used as a marker for SSS exposure. There are further
complications related to the varying amounts of dilution which will be reguired
to produce the different test aerosols. These different dilutions are“likely
to produce aerosols with different physical characteristics, which in turn may
affect deposition in a major way. In whole-body exposures a very considerable
part of the test aerosol is likely to deposit on the animal's fur, and thence

issui?zzuosf

o
.
Nag-um.“ .wl “up. my...“ --

 

 

Ann-n-F----u--~---~--h---~e-—--~---i—-~—---

' s - I o
reer, Dr. 5. Saunders and m self at which the .situation was
scussed in detail. Analyses rom the 1988 and previous crops
the coming and fut re crops vﬁgpﬁlégﬂs§8a°°mbﬁ§‘"9692§rp$8”'°m:33
. . . ues
that he be kept fully advised'of our progress in this campgign.

JAN. 11{ P1990 - I met with Mr. R. English, Director of Imported

kﬁ?;’pogitign a33°33l¥3§ cgﬁcglﬁlgssﬁﬂl§hﬁa¥§331°m1'sage"3l3‘t 3:
PM was certainl concerned about ghe issue and' that i} S

. would ake the‘ .ead in or anizin a cam'ai n in Turk .
other Briental ,producing ountrigs, PM pw‘ogld offer ethegadfﬁl?
vocal support in these e forts. .

JAN. 19,‘ 1990 -‘A meetinaiwas held.with the PM and BAT Oriental
'Leaf mana ers in Izmir to iscuss the situat on and to outline a

campaign 0 attack this issue in the.coming 1990 crop. It was
decide to roceed. a ong the same ines as our Brevious y

successful 1 88 cro .ca ai n a ain t the misus of n 's lfan
products. . p - mp g g 's . e ' do u

JAN. 22, 1990 eA meeting was held with the Board of Directors of '

'the Aegean Tobacco Exporters' Association. The groblem was
discussed in detai , possib e consequences to the To acco trade
were-emphasized and the gene al outline for action decided at
the above meeting was exp ained. The fu l support and
cooperation of the association was assured.

9 0 - A meeting we with the following member 'of

I:
Y. Ozden - Chairman and General Manager.
:say - Assistant General Manager

.K
bili ~ Mana er L at Toba co Co rcial Sec ion
Dr. G. gagan - Manageg, lea: Tobaccg Resegwgh and Qua ity Control

Accompanying me at this meeting were:'

Mr. E. gzgener w President, Aegean Tobacco Exporters' Association I
Mr. D. a ey - Area Manager, P Izmir , .
Mr. J. Downie - Area Manager, BAT-Izmir.

Here a ain the roblem was dis u sed in detail and 'the serious
otentgal consepuences to Turkgsﬁ obac 0 ex orts was emphasized.

he eneral out ine o .

upon9 with areas of res onsib y c early defined. Mr. Ozden
9.ng teammates"... a: examines“...astute. :2:
gggpegation and go .repogt directlyp tg him on the eggorts and

progress.

.FEB, .26, 1990 -.A questionnaire was drawn up by this gffice in
order_to conduct a genera ysurvey of the farmers n t
growing areas (see attachment 1). The purpose of this survey w
o assess tendencies in the usage of al t e i u lu
chemicals in Turkish tobacco cultivation. Th Itext of this
- ted by the Board of D rectors of The
egean' Tobacco .Exporters'. Association and 1,000, co ies were

0 the largest .mer t companies during the follgwing week.
While the survey was conducted largely at random in al the magor
agrgamgssmn metatarsal :EQSE‘t‘J"8§¢ mm s“
e

high or lgw end of.thepresidue range were specifically targeted.

1 5 held
e urklsh' tate Monopoly (TEKEL) General Management Staf in-

AEOOONV

-nted. The survgxagas conducted by the field staff 0 several.

 

6.

“a" 5. "Cigarette smoking aha HDL cholesterol: the Fram-
ingham Offspring Study" —— R. .1. Garrison, Framingham. This
study dealt with the relation of cigarette smoking to high
density lipoproteins (HDL), high levels of which are con-
sidered a protective factor in CHD, in 21h9 females and 1958
males aged 20—49. Adjustment was made for obesity and alco—
hol intake. The subjects were part of the Framingham Off-
spring Study, itself a part of the overall Framinham Heart
Study.

Cigarette smoking was found to decrease HDL in smokers
who drank little or no alcohol. Former cigarette smokers
(off cigarettes at least a year) and cigar or pipe smokers
who had never smoked cigarettes had HDL comparable to those

of nonsmokers. Cigarette exposure appears directly related
to HDL level. '

The data suggest another explanation for the association
of cigarette smoking with atherosclerosis. "If, indeed, cig~
arette smoking aggravates atherosclerosis by lowering HDL
levels, then the question of whether cessation of smoking
and return to higher HDL levels leads to remission of ath—

\\\erosclerosis needs attention."

6. "Influence of cigarette smoking on the natural his-
tory of coronary artery disease" —- Thomas Gaarder, Downey,
AT) Cal. In a poster session, Gaarder reported a study in which
progressive obstructive artery disease (POD) was measured
in 135 men and women by coronary arteriography 10—54 months
after initial examination. POD, defined as any increase in
obstruction greather than 25%, occurred in 54 patients; of
these 43 went on to total occlusion.

POD relative to the presence of single (1VD), double
(2VD) or triple (3VD) vessel disease was measured at four
time intervals. The effect of blood sugar, lipids, blood
pressure, and cigarette smoking on POD also was analyzed
at each time interval in the 2VD and 3VD groups. The most
significant factor related to POD at each time interval was
smoking. The 2VD and BVD groups showed rapid POD; that in
1VD was much less. It was concluded that smoking had a sig—
nificant adverse effect on coronary change.

7. At a press conference on whether atherosclerosis can
be reversed:

\5 Antonio Gotto, Jr., Houston, There has been a sig-
nificant decline in the incidence of all forms of CV dis-
Q» ease but specific factors responsible can't really by I
identified. There are only inferences from epidemiologic
surveys of humans and animal studies. There has been a

 

lOOE lQZOS

.REPORT FOR APRIL 1971

In the month of April 1971 cigaret taxes in the 50 states and the
District of Columbia were imposed on 2,078,649,000 packages. This was
an increase of 1.2% in the volume of cigarets taxed during the month of
April 1970 when the package count was 2,053,715,000.

Thirty-two jurisdictions showed increases and 19 showed decreases
when the April 1971 package count was compared with April 1970.

Cumulative figures on the volume of cigarets taxed for the ten
month period July 1970 through April 1971 were up 3.9% from the
corresponding months a year ago. The ten month total for the current
fiscal year was 20,450,713,000 packages as against 19,685,623,000
packages for the corresponding period a year ago.

Forty—three jurisdictions experienced increases and seven experienced
decreases in the volume of cigarets taxed during the ten month period
of the current fiscal year as against the corresponding period of the
previous year.

The aggregate of the cigaret taxes for April 1971 in the 51 juris-
dictions was $226,471,308.

6/7/71

TIMS 0010084

Authors: Fred H. Best
Steve Sink

—

Notebook Pages: 391933-391950
Dated: August 18,1988

FATE OF 14C-LABELED PHENETHYL ISOVALERATE IN TOTAL SMOKE FROM
WINSTON KS CIGARETTES

OBJECTIVES:

An objective of this study was to determine the fate,
including transfer efficiencies, of phenethyl isovalerate in
total smoke from NINSTON KS (NKS) cigarettes. A further objective
was to determine the distribution of phenethyl isovalerate

between tobacco rod and filter as a function of time prior to
smoking.

SUMMARY:

Radiotracer studies with carbon-14 labeled phenethyl
isovalerate have been performed and show that phenethyl
isovalerate applied to tobacco rods (WKS) migrates to the
filters. After 8 weeks the ratio was 35% in the filters and 65%
in the rods. After 9 weeks this filter/rod ratio was 36/64 which
indicated a leveling off in the migration rate. Therefore,
smoking runs were begun. Nhen smoked in the total recovery
smoking apparatus ("TRSA"), 14% (88% of which was intact
phenethyl isovalerate) of the total phenethyl isovalerate in the
cigarette transfered to MSTPM and 25% (95% of which was intact
phenethyl isovalerate) to SSTPM. Elution studies showed that
only a net 10% of the phenethyl isovalerate in the filters (about
3.5% of the total in the cigarette) was delivered to MSTPM which
represents 26% of the total in MSTPM. About 5% was eluted from
the tobacco rods to mainstream smoke, 55% of which was removed by
the filters. The unsmoked filters from the rod elution study
were analysed and indicated a 40/60 phenethyl isovalerate
filter/rod distribution at 10 weeks. Therefore, additional
sacrifices were performed at 1] and 13 weeks and filter/rod .
distributions of 45/55 were found at each time indicating another
leveling in the migration rate. Data from the filtration studies
indicate a 52/48 filter/rod ratio after 16-17 weeks.
Equilibration may not have been reached when this study ended;
however, the amount of phenethyl isovalerate in MSTPM was
constant regardless of the distribution prior to smoking. The
filtration efficiency of NINSTON KS filters for phenethyl
isovalerate was 44% at standard puffing conditions.

STATUS:

This work is complete. Results have been reported to the
Flavor Division of Product & Applied Technology. No further work
is planned.

9791. TOLOS

 

HIGHLIGHTS 5:48 PM MON., 23 JAN., 1984
BIOBEHAVIORAL RESEARCH

1.8moke COMponent Dose (Chamberlin, Reynolds)

Software has been developed for the HP-BbB computer which success~
fully transmits positioning and valuing commands to the human—mimic
smoking machine controller. The timing of the commands (one command
every 40 milliseconds) appears to be entirely adequate. Software for the
HP~1000 computer which translates puff~profile data into positioning
commands is already on hand. Minor modifications of this software are
required to incorporate valuing commands. Once this is complete, a test
in which full sets of commands will be generated, downloaded to the HP

HP-BbB, and transmitted to the smoking machine will be made. Assuming
the success of this test, the smoking machine will be operational with~

in a matter of days.

2. Psychophysiology (Gilbert, Chamberlin, Ingram)

Computer processing of the EEG data from the smoking and stress

study is complete, including the generation of plots of EEG power spec—
tra; Essentially all other data from the smoking and stress study have

been entered into computer data files, proofread and corrected. Statis—
tidal analyses of these data are underway. Preliminary results should

be available shortly.

3. Nicotine Pharmacology (Lippiello, Davis, Robinson, Ingram)

The first experiments with the new, tritiated, L-nicotine have

been completed. The binding affininty (Kd " 20 nM) and maximum binding
'capacity (Bmax " 100 fmoles/mg protein) of the murine neuroblastoma~as~

sociated receptor sites agree well with our previously reported values.
The Bmax value translates into roughly 2000 binding sites per cell. Ex-~
periments to determine the pharmacological specificity of these sites

have commenced.'

The Zeiss ICMAOS phase/fluorescence microscope has been ordered. I

Dr. John Robinson is attending the winter Brain Research Confer-
ence in Colorado. At this meeting, he will confer with Dr. Deadwyler
'(Bowman Gray School of Medicine) and Dr. Dudek (Tulane University) in

regard to establishing research protocols for the study of the effects
of nicotine on the rat hypothalamus. It is hoped that this work can be

carried out at Bowman Gray concurrently with recently funded work on the
rat hippocampus. Additionally, Dr. Robinson will consult with Dr. Dead—
Nyler and Dr. Uoodward (Univ. of Texas Medical Center at Dallas) in re~
gard to generation of research proposals for the thorough investigation
of the effects of nicotine on the rat brain by means of in-viuo ionto-
phoresis and/or imaging of metabolic sites of ardeaxyglucose.

4. Blood Chemistry (Davis, Ingram)

( The procedure described.by Curuall, et al. (J. Chromatog., 232, 283—
293 {19823) for the extraction of nicotine and cotinine from blood plasma
is under evaluation. Samples have been extracted but chromatographic re—

sults are not yet available.

SLCO 86205

H... .... ._

 

a“ .
s s,

 

 

‘PLANS AND EROPOSALS FOR FUTURE ACTIVITIES

 

3.1

'3.2

 

information Services

The monitoring network on ,international and national
developments.will;beafurthergdeyeloped.. ' ,

PeriodiCroutgoing information willhbe structured in fourﬁ~l
report-8: 1“,; _. 3 EC. ‘ 1, I". (1 ‘{‘;M . .1 A'w , _;~ . z _ _ .."_ . _  ,

,
..»‘
n“. r

1. Monthly abstracts of publicly accessible: material

'a (INFOTOPICS) w". ,.:.

2. nConferences and events (INFODATE)'

3. NMA action and programs (INFOGRAM) ‘ » ‘

4. Briefing papers on specific issues (INFOBRIEF)

Consideration is being given to-a fifth periodical report
on legislation.

The information base will be expanded further, focusing on
priority issues. "

Support to project teams will be increased progressively as
soon as the-staff's workload'allows.‘

The staff's orientation program will be continued. '~

Regional Coordination '

A project team has reviewed NMAs in Asia and Latin America
to identify priority countries in which new NMAs are needed
or :existing gNMAs ‘need- substantial 'development. Four
countries min ;Latin Ameriqa. were recommended (see 2.4.2
above); other Latin American‘NMAs”are in need of help, but
did not meet all criteria of the selection process. It is
hoped that the special assignment to four countries in
Latin America will be agreed and supported by the member
companies concerned and their affiliates. '

Project members also identified significant weak areas in
Asia where INPOTAB help is needed, including Pakistan,

Bangladesh, Hong Kong and Singapore.

__A _ f

thO EEtOS

ACTION-TRAC TRANSMITTAL DATE: May 2, 1991

TO: GEORGE MINSHEW/CATHEY YOE

FROM: TERRY EAGAN

 

LEGISLATIVE ACTION REPORT

UPDATE: May 2, 1991

STATE/LOCALITY: CALIFORNIA

BILL NUMBER: AB 1733

ISSUE: Liability ‘

SUMMARY: Bill provides that in a product liability action the

product must be intended for personal consumption by
ingestion into the body. Would also provide that product
liability action does not include an action brought by a
person who did not voluntarily consume the product.

SPONSOR: Assembly Member Sher
INTRO DATE: 3/8/91
COMMITTEE:

HEARING DATE:

BILL COPY TO DC: Mailed 3/14/91

LEGISLATIVE STATUS: 2 year bill

 

INDUSTRY ACTION PLAN

UPDATE: >

SUMMARY: >

RESOURCES To BE USED YES/NO DATE NEEDED DATE USED
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS/FACTSHEET? > > >
>

LEGAL MEMORANDUM? > > >
>

EXPERT WITNESSES? > > >
>

COALITION ALLIES? > > >
>

TI GRASSROOTS MOBILIZATION? > > >
>

COMPANY RESOURCES? > > >

>

TCAL0230966

Chronology of Events

On December 4, 1964, The Council for Tobacco Research initiated an
experiment on the effects of chronic exposure to tobacco smoke of
populations ofmice of various strains, to explore the effect of tobacco
smoke when applied directly to the skin of mice as well as to various
other organs of other species such as rabbits, rats or hamsters. It also
was to support design and construction of a smoking machine. This was
financed by a grant of $350, 000 in five equal annual installments of

$70, 000 each to Bio—Research Institute, Inc.

A first smoking machine was designed and constructed by Richard Walton
and began to be tested by us on December 2, 1965. Exploratory studies
with various modifications of the Walton machine continued to January
1967 when the first group of 7100 C57BL/6 mice were subjected to chronic
inhalation studies- These were replaced by 200 lvfillerton Swiss voice in
May 196'? because of high mortality among the black mice. A great deal
of work was done on acute toxicity of smoke of various cigarettes in mice
and a paper was published on this at a meeting of the Society of Toxicology

in 1967.

On November 1, 1967, a patent application for the smoking machine was
filed by Richard Waltonu On October I, 1968, we suggested that ”the
time had come to decide whether or not the Walton reverse smoker should
be universally accepted. ” We stated that, based on our experience, we
were ready to begin a new chronic exposure experiment. This was based
on a review of data on 34 surviving mice exposed five times per week for
55 weeks. Slides of these mice Were reviewed by Loosli who called them
poor and by Thelma Dunn and Harold Stewart who cormnented that “the
dilatation of the alveolar spaces appears to be excellent, so we judge that
your technique for expanding the lungs by the intratracheal instillation of

fixing fluid is satisfactoryo ”

From 1968 to 1969 the first large-scale experiment for skin painting with
native smoking machine jet condensate was carried out and the lesser
activity of fresh smoke was first noted by Bernfeld September 5, 1969.

On November 7, 1969 the use of inbred Syrian hamsters was first sug-
gested by us as part of a study of the effects of rodent viruses on tobacco
smoke effects then proposed by Dr. Sim of Yale who wished to join us for
this work. CTR declined to support this project.

CT? Cﬁﬁlﬁﬁfli ﬁﬁgddd

 

 

 

 

 

 

1)

2)

 

MORE SIGNIFICANT ACTIVITIES REPORT
Week of 2/25/85

 

The Brand attended focus groups in Orlando in order to obtain
general consumer information which will be used for this
year's positioning and target evaluation process and also for
1986 planning. Groups were conducted among female franchise
and target 120's and Lights smokers, and male franchise 120's
smokers. Focus group results will be forwarded week of 3/4
with Brand's perspective.

The Brand attended the Second Annual MORE Fashion Award
auditions at Carnegie Hall in New York. The MORE Fashion
Award was established to discover and recognize new fashion
talent in America.

Judges Giorgio Sant'Angelo, Willi Smith and Michaele
Vollbracht selected five finalists from a field of twenty—
four semi—finalists. The five finalists will each present
ten designs from their Fall 1985 collections to leading
fashion retailers and journalists on 4/29 at the Pierre Hotel
in New York. Judges from the final round of competition will
include Mary McFadden and Carolina Herrera, in addition to
the three designers named above. _Hostess for the event will
be French film star Catherine Deneuve. The 1985 winner will
receive the MORE Fashion Award which was designed by Paloma
Picasso.

Preliminary indications are that the press is providing good
post-event coverage of the auditions. Articles have already ‘
appeared in U.S.A. Today, the Daily News, and the New York
Times, with additional coverage expected soon. The Brand
will forward copies of all articles to me.

MAS:srh

CC

F. V. Creighton
L. G. Disch

M. L. Gann

C. J. Gramer

D. S. Johnson
J. C. Lee

W. L. Mullenix
S. C. Nassar

R. H. O'Leary

J. R. Shostak

QGhE 86€OS

 

 

 

/J2pp;7I-MW
XML/£70: W

SMOKING IN SWEDEN

0 Per capita adult (3 15 yrs. old) cigarette consumption increased
from 1,726 units in 1977 to 1,781 units in 1981 —- averaging 0.3

percent a year, but variable.

Overall sales of cigarettes in Sweden declined for only one year in
this 1977-81 interval, and increased for all other years to 1982.

From 1977 to 1980, Sweden's population increased by only 0.7 percent,
but cigarette sales during this period increased by 4.87 percent (from

11.357 billion cigarettes to 11.91 billion).

 

0 Per capita adult cigarette consumption for the period 1975 to 1981
was strongly correlated with sales, with regard to statistical
variability, but Swedish population increase was not significantly

related to sales variations.

An article of May 1982 in the Swedish Journal Nordisk Medecin, Vol.
97, pp 134-136, indicated that total tobacco consumption in Sweden is

remarkably stable. Among the conclusions were the facts that some
heavy to moderate male smokers have increased use of snuff; there was
an increase in smoking quantities among women; the percentage of male

smokers declined moderately but steadily.

Svenska Tobaks AB information dept. reported data [in 1982] on which
these trends are based. They also report that 4 percent of the

population roll their own, and these cigarette smokers may increase
the actual number of cigarette smokers in Sweden when they are added

to those who smoke manufactured cigarettes (the latter 33 percent of
all adults).

CONFIDENTIAL:
MINNESOTA TOBACCO LIT TIMN 260095

IGATION

 

u

i
1

I

. BOOK II

Buist — U. of Oregon — #1044

The role of alpha1 antitrypsin deficiency as a risk factor in the
development of chronic airways obstruction.

The investigator's specific aim is to examine the role of alpha
antitrypsin (3, AT) deficiency as a risk factor in the development of

chronic airway obstruction. The hypotheses to be tested are that

a) MZ heterozygote for a,AT deficiency has impaired lung function as
measured by a wide range of tests of lung mechanics and

b) the MZ heterozygote does not belong to the high risk category
for the development of chronic airway obstruction unless there is an

additive factor such as smoking, pollutants etc.

In View of the unusual population available and her expertise, I recommend
continuation at high priority.

LEON O. JACOBSON, M.D.

ML
. 7/1 3/7 (a

WWWW/M 2% WMM L

£t39¢£u¢

50118021

 

-- Talking Points --

Research Arm of Congress Releases Study
Critical of Proposal To Raise Cigarette Taxes

The Congressional Research Service, the independent research arm of Congress,

has issue a report casting doubt on the wisdom of raising the federal cigarette tax .

to pay for President Clinton's plan for govemment-run health care.

1. Smokers Already Pay flheir Fair Share in Smigl Costs - Increased health _

costs, sick leave and other expenses smoking imposes on society do not
justify the Clinton Administration's proposed 75 cents per pack cigarette
excise tax hike, CRS says.

— CRS found that existing state and federal cigarette excise taxes, which
average about 50 cents a pack, already cover average estimates of
smoking's so—called "costs imposed by smokers on non-smokers.‘I

— One estimate suggests smoking does not impose any extra costs on non-
smokers. Rather, it provides net savings to the non-smoking population
due to reduced drain on social security and pension payouts.

— The report cited a 1991 study by Willard G. Manning that found the net
external cost per pack of cigarettes was about 16 cents for smokers. It
also looked at a 1989 RAND,Corporation study, which found that, in
1986, each smokers ends up costing society about 15 cents per pack of
cigarettes - which translates into 21 cents today because of inﬂation -- but
still below the‘current 24-cents a pack federal tax, and considerably lower
than the overall average of 50 cents a pack for all federal and state taxes.

-— CRS also found the Manning Study made a "much stronger case" for
taxing alcoholic beverages at a higher rate. "An alcohol tax would appear
to be more efﬁcient and more equitable: the best estimate of alcohol's net
external cost exceeds current tax levels; alcohol taxes are also regressive,
but less so than cigarette taxes," the CRS study found.

980L 9BSIS

 

 
   
 

 
     
        
    
     
    
     

FSC-55-A
9' COUPON RETURN PROCEDURES ..... T he Coupon
Management Systems has been discontinued effective

notebooks that orders for preprinted coupons are limited to
an as needed basis. The following procedures are in place

for the return of coupons.

 

      
     
     
     
           
     
   
          
   
       
     
   
     
    
   
   
    
   
      
      
     
    
   
    
      
       
    
  
 
    
     

 

gxglrg Coupgns:
Request Division Management to send, to the ROU, all

preprinted coupons that will be expiring. Any coupon that
has expired or is to expire within three months is

considered an expired coupon.
Work with Division Management to ensure that coupons

sent to the ROU are not lost in transit.

' , coupons should be accumulated to

a minimum of 50 pounds (total packages) and shipped via
Consolidated Freight with third party billing to RJRT. Any
small remaining shipments under 50 pounds (total weight
of all boxes) are to be shipped Airborne - Second Day with
third party billing to RJRT. Since this is very expensive,
please minimize use of this shipping method. Do not return
coupons via UPS. Please use 'printed matter“ as the
freight description When completing your bill of lading.

 
 

Call Dennis Jacobs (e

all divisions are receive
shipping. Dennis will provide you with a Return Tracking

Number. Please be prepared to provide him with the exact
number of boxes being returned.

abeled with 'ship from' andfship to'
eference to “RR Tobacco'Company‘
as this creates interest in the package. Each box should be

marked with the Return Tracking Number provided by
follows: 1 of 10. 2 of 10. etc. All

boxes should be taped securely to prevent the box from

bursting open during transit. Send returns to:

All cases must be I
addresses without r

RJRT clo GATX Logistics, Inc.
5900 Grassy Creek Boulevard
Winston-Salem, NC 27105

Attention: Katie Young

Returning Active Coumns:
Call Geraldine Nicks at 767-9230 (voicemail 741-3328) or

Barbara Mason at 741-3342 for a Return Authorization
Number.

  

Return only full rolls
complete SKU’s can
marked with the assigned RA number.

shut securely, and label
ddress and the following

9- BPE ENHANCEMEN
been added to BPE based on

Box up the coupons taping them
each box with your 'shlp from' a

address:

of active (u
be returned and each

RJRTIGATX Logistics. Inc.
5900 Grassy Creek Boulevard

Winston-Salem. NC 27105
RA#_____________,__

Chicago Promotion

nexpired) coupons. Only
case must be

TS ..... Two new copy functions have
a suggestion submitted by

Coordinator. Ellen Ganschaw. Please

review the following steps for using these functions:

1. Select Function V5

”Copy Generic Templates"

2. Select with an “X" the appropriate template
plate at one time may be selected)

copied (only 1 tem
and press 'enter'.

You may also delete temp
entering a “D" by the a

unlimited number
time).

6 -“Copy VAP Templates" or G54-

you need

lates with this function by
ppropriate templates (an

of templates may be deleted at one

3. Rename the template and press “PF5” to

template.
4. To review your lis

accounts that are

'9' SMS 422 GEN

keep your new template as c

If you have questio
Planning - Ext. 2584.

ERAL SHIPMENT ORDERS - SHIPPING
MEMO OPTION ..... The SMS general shipment ordering

function 422 ('Gen Ship-S
function now has an option to print or not print shipping

memos. (This option is no
national )ooooot level.)

t of templates refer to Fun

VAP and/or Function G52 in GTP.

COPY
ctlon V52 for

tels) will remain in tact for future
reference. However, when you create a copy
VAP Template, the syste

version of a

m will automatically delete

no longer linked to the direct account to

ns, please call Sharon Re

t available when orderin

urrent as possible.

id, Sales

ame Qty Batch Release”)

9 at the

 

IGQL 20819

 

SMOKING RESTRICTIONS:
THE HIDDEN THREAT TO PUBLIC HEALTH

By Gray Robertson
President, ACVA Atlantic, Inc.

Ban smoking.

It's the instant solution to indoor air pollution. Right? No more
sore and watery eyes, headaches, mysterious bouts of allergies and asthma,
scratchy throats, coughing or other respiratory problems. And best of all,

no more worries about chronic health problems from the air you breathe.
Right? .

Hrong. H.L. Mencken might have been anticipating today's debate about
smoking on the job and in public places when he wrote: '"For every problem
there is a solution that is simple, neat -- and wrong.“ The truth is that
reducing or eliminating smoking in the workplace is no solution to the
problem of indoor air pollution.

When it comes to poor indoor air quality, tobacco smoke appears to be
among the least of our worries. New reports by federal and private experts
show that environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) may be the primary cause of
indoor air pollution in as few as 2 percent of all cases. And that means
Kansas City lawmakers will accomplish little or nothing even if they
succeed in removing every last wisp of tobacco smoke in the workplace.
Complaints of health problems and irritations will persist. We now know
that the vast majority of these reports are unrelated to cigarette smoke.

How much of the blame now heaped on ETS is misplaced? The government's
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) reports that
of the 203 major indoor air quality complaints it examined recently, just
four cases -- or 2 percent -- were attributable to cigarette smoking. My
own independent firm, ACVA Atlantic, Inc., has inspected more than 27
million square feet of office space in 125 major private and public
buildings, including the U.S. Supreme Court and the main Federal Reserve
Bank. Tobacco smoke was identified as the major contributing factor to air
quality problems in only five of those buildings.

These consistent findings make it increasingly clear that tobacco smoke
is blamed for poor indoor air quality simply because it is one of the few
indoor air factors that we can see and smell. But high levels of ETS are
nothing more than a symptom of poorly maintained and designed ventilation
systems. While NIOSH identified ETS as the problem in a tiny handful of
instances, inadequate ventilation was blamed in 50 percent of them. ACVA
investigations show improper attention to indoor air circulation was
responsible in the majority of cases for the spread and breeding of
infectious germs and allergenic dusts and spores —— not to mention
fiberglass particles, asbestos, chemical fumes and a host of other
hazardous airborne particles undetectable to the eye and nose.

E069 96hCS

